---
id: 7d.4-leadership
title: 7D.4 Leadership
meta: The leadership that should be demonstrated by all Supervisors.
order: 4
auth: supervisors
---

# 7D.4 Leadership



### 7D.4.1

Accountability exists for everyone within the team, and therefore Controllers are expected to utilize any feedback given to improve. Supervisors **should**{.red} make every effort to give both positive and negative feedback to Controllers (even if they are not in the Check Ride phase). When the opportunity exists and if deemed necessary *(see [7D.4.4](/guide/atc-manual/7d.-supervisors/7d.4-leadership#7d.4.4) below)*, Supervisors can add a "note" to the Controller's record on the [website](https://if-atc.com) by following the steps below:



Step 1

: Go to [website](https://if-atc.com) and login via the "Dashboard"



Step 2

: Select "Controllers" from the navigation bar at the top of the screen



Step 3

: Utilize the "search" function to find the Controller



Step 4

: Select their name from under IFC and then "notes" from the navigation bar on their profile



Step 5

: Applicable notes can be added and then saved by clicking "Add Note"



### 7D.4.2

When giving feedback, Supervisors **should**{.red} follow the below points to ensure that it is proportionate, valid and in keeping with the team ethos:



- Only one person to give the feedback to the individual, this can be collated first in the *#supervisors* Discord channel
- All feedback to be given via PM unless the feedback is targeted and will immediately alleviate* the current situation that is happening under their control
- Know the difference between technique and rule
- Try to ask open questions (How do you feel your session went? Was there anything you would do differently next time?)
- Always reenforce the good points
- Before sending feedback, ask yourself if it really is needed? Will this feedback achieve the desired affect?



**E.g. you see that the Controller's base turn is starting to slip further downwind and terrain is a factor, you suggest in the #controllers Discord channel that the Controller sends [callsign] further upwind before turning them downwind to help build space that can then be used to bring the base turn back. This is an example of targeted advice that is being sent to try and alleviate the current situation*



### 7D.4.3

Supervisors may assist in general matters within IFATC, but **must**{.red} leave other sensitive requests to the appropriate groups (i.e. violations to the Appeals Team, recruiting questions to Recruiters and training questions to Trainers). 



### 7D.4.4

It is highly encouraged that Supervisors use the "note" function to record both positive and negative feedback for Controllers. This is always taken into consideration when Controllers are considered for promotions within IFATC and therefore (no matter how minor), will help track trends or potential issues that may arise in the future. Supervisors **should**{.red} take note that, by definition, an absence of negative notes indicates a good track record.