---
id: 7c.2-recruitment-process-(initial)
title: 7C.2 Recruitment Process (Initial)
meta: The procedures to be followed by Recruiters for initial recruitment into IFATC.
order: 2
hidden: true
annex: recruiters
---

# 7C.2 Recruitment Process (Initial)



### 7C.2.1

The summary below outlines the complete recruitment process for a Candidate (Recruit):



Step 1

: Provided that the Recruit has been verified by a Moderator ("Moderator Verified" box ticked), accept the Recruit *(see [7C.4.1](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.1) below)*



Step 2

: Once accepted, complete the Profile Verification to ensure that the Recruit meets the minimum requirements (see [7C.2.2](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.2-recruitment-process-(initial)#7c.2.2) and [7C.4.4](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.4) below)



Step 3

: Assign The Initial Theory Test *(see [7C.4.5](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.5) below)*



Step 4

: The result of The Initial Theory Test will determine the next steps to be taken *(see [7C.2.3](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.2-recruitment-process-(initial)#7c.2.3) below)*. If the Recruit passes they can move onto The Initial Practical Test *(see [7C.4.6](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.6) below)*



Step 5

: The result of The Initial Practical Test will determine the next steps to be taken *(see [7C.2.4](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.2-recruitment-process-(initial)#7c.2.4) below)*. If the Recruit passes they can be added to IFATC *(see [7C.4.7](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.7) below)*



### 7C.2.2

Once a Candidate has applied and a Moderator Check of their IFC profile has been completed, they will be approved for recruitment. It is then the responsibility of the Recruiter to verify that the Candidate meets the following requirements:



- **Trust Level 1** on the IFC Forum in good standing
- At least 14 years of age or as specified by Discord [here](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040724612-Why-is-Discord-asking-for-my-birthday-) for your country
- Minimum stats to enter Expert Server (Grade 3)
- Infinite Flight Account **must**{.red} be linked to IFC account in-app
- **All-time** stats do not exceed 50% Level 1 Violation to landings ratio
- Minimum of 500 ATC operations
- At least 60 days since last Level 2 and/or 3 Violation
- Valid email address (for Discord addition purposes)



Verification of the above requirements can be assisted using the ATC Dashboard (a link is available within the *#recruiter* channel and login credentials are provided on joining the Recruitment Team). If a Candidate fails to meet the requirements outlined above, the application **must**{.red} be denied. If the Candidate is successful, then the Recruit can move to the next stage.



### 7C.2.3

After Candidates have been verified (Moderator and Profile), they are then granted clearance to take The Initial Theory Test. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that the [Classmarker Link](https://www.classmarker.com/online-test/start/?quiz=x9v565cbee44cdad) to the Initial Theory Test **AND** a valid test code (a number of which is provided by the IFATC Manager upon request) is included in the initial message. Additional relevant information and/or commentary may be provided at the Recruiter's discretion *(see [7C.4.5](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.5) below)*.

Once a Candidate has taken The Initial Theory Test, the final score will determine whether or not the process can continue. A **pass mark of 80% or more must**{.red} be achieved to move onto The Initial Practical Test. The following wait periods are required if a Candidate does not pass:



| Score    | Wait Period before Retake |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| 00 - 49% | 30 days                   |
| 50 - 79% | 14 days                   |

Three failed attempts at The Initial Theory Test results in a 90 day wait period to restart the process. This may be modified at Recruiter and/or IFATC Manager discretion if necessary. 	



### 7C.2.4

Once The Initial Theory Test has been successfully passed, the Candidate can move onto The Initial Practical Test *(see [7B.1](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.1-testing-process#7b.1-testing-process) and [7B.2](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.2-initial-testing#7b.2-initial-testing) above)*. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that the Candidate is provided with adequate notice, including a time and location of the test once this has been agreed *(see [7C.4.6](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.6) below)*.

Once The Initial Practical Test has been completed, the Recruiter **must**{.red} inform the Candidate of the result. The following wait periods are required if a Candidate does not pass:



| Performance  | Wait Period before Retake |
| ------------ | ------------------------- |
| Poor         | 30 days                   |
| Marginal     | 14 days                   |
| Undetermined | Recruiter Discretion      |

Three failed attempts at The Initial Practical Test results in a 90 day wait period to restart the process. A "no show" to a scheduled test does not constitute an attempt however will result in a 14 day wait period before retake unless a valid reason (as determined by the Recruiter) is given. A subsequent "no show" will result in termination of the recruitment process. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that they document everything in the recruit's profile *(see [7C.2.6](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.2-recruitment-process-(initial)#7c.2.6) below)*.



Tip

: If a Candidate does not pass The Initial Practical Test on their first attempt, they will become eligible for training if they want it. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that Candidates are aware of this *(see [7.3.2](/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.3-initial-theory-and-practical-tests#7.3.2) above)*



### 7C.2.5

Provided that both The Initial Theory and Practical Tests have been passed, the Candidate can be invited to join the IFATC Team *(see [7C.4.7](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.4-recruiter-admin#7c.4.7) below)*. 



### 7C.2.6

All Recruiters **should**{.red} do a comprehensive review of their list of recruits at least once a month to check for activity. Contact attempts (and termination of their application if applicable) **must**{.red} be documented in the "notes" section of the recruit's profile. This can be done via the [website](https://if-atc.com) by following the steps below:



Step 1

: Go to [website](https://if-atc.com) and login via the "Dashboard"



Step 2

: The "My Dashboard" tab will automatically show and under "My Recruits" will be a list of current Recruit's that are assigned to you



Step 3

:  Select the name of the Recruit under "IFC" and their profile will open showing all information for that Recruit



Tip

: Alternatively, you can select the "Recruits" tab from the navigation bar at the top of the screen and use the search function to find the Recruit



Step 4

: Select their name from under IFC and then "notes" from the navigation bar on their profile



Step 5

: Applicable notes can be added and then saved by clicking "Add Note"

