---
id: 7c.3-radar-process
title: 7C.3 Radar Process
meta: The procedures to be followed by Recruiters for radar recruitment within IFATC.
order: 3
hidden: true
annex: recruiters
---

# 7C.3 Radar Process 



### 7C.3.1

For Controllers to enter the Radar certification process, all instructions in this manual **must**{.red} be followed *(see [7.5](/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.5-radar-theory-and-practical-tests#7.5-radar-theory-and-practical-tests) above)*. Following a successful review, the Recruiter **must**{.red} instruct the Controller to submit a [Training Request Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf8ufRvQNLvAMl7K9Sj1hnddQ07Tdj3mF4zHR1DqOVPwiAEHA/viewform).

The radar certification process is relatively straightforward as a recruiter - they are only to provide and coordinate the written and practical exams whenever a trainer clears a candidate to take either. Recruiters need not concern themselves with any particulars outside of those two functions, though they reserve the right to terminate the radar process of a candidate if necessary. 	



### 7C.3.2

When a Controller is ready to take the Radar Theory Test, the Recruiter must provide them with the [Classmarker Link](https://www.classmarker.com/online-test/start/?quiz=q4h5a75fac936d32) and the password **terrainpullup**.



Once a Controller has taken the Radar Theory Test, the final score will determine whether or not the process can continue. A **pass mark of 70% or more must**{.red} be acheived to move onto the Radar Practical Test (provided the Trainer has endorsed* this). The following wait periods are required if a Controller does not pass:



| Score    | Wait Period before Retake |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| 00 - 40% | 30 days                   |
| 41 - 69% | 14 days                   |

Three failed attempts at the Radar Theory Test results in a XX day wait period (although restarting the process is not required and can continue after the wait period expires). 



**Once the Radar Theory Test has been passed, the Controller must have the permission of the Trainer to move onto the Radar Practical Test, further training may be required before the Controller can progress*



### 7C.3.3

Once the Radar Theory Test has been successfully passed, the Controller can move onto the Initial Practical Test following permission from their Trainer *(see [7B.1](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.1-testing-process#7b.1-testing-process) and [7B.3](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.3-radar-testing#7b.3-radar-testing) above)*. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that the Controller is provided with adequate notice, including a time and location of the test once this has been agreed.

Once the Radar Practical test has been completed, the Recruiter will inform the Controller of the result by either a DM on the IFC and/or the recording of feedback on the IFATC Website. The following wait periods are required if a Controller does not pass:



| Performance  | Wait Period before Retake |
| ------------ | ------------------------- |
| Poor         | 30 days                   |
| Marginal     | 14 days                   |
| Undetermined | Recruiter Discretion      |

Three failed attempts at the Radar Theory Test results in a XX day wait period (although restarting the process is not required and can continue after the wait period expires). 



### 7C.3.4

Provided that both the Radar Theory and Practical Tests have been passed, the Controller can be promoted to the rank of Officer. The IFATC Manager **must**{.red} be provided with the following information in the #recruiter Slack channel:



- Slack display name
