---
id: 7c.4-written-test
title: 7C.4 Written Test
meta: This page outlines details on the written test for Tower and Radar during the recruitment process.
order: 4
auth: recruiters
---

# 7C.4 Written Test



## Tower

### 7C.4.1

Once a Recruit has taken the Tower Written Test, the final score will determine whether or not the process can continue. A **pass mark of 80% or more must**{.red} be achieved to move onto the Tower Practical Test. The following wait periods are required if a Recruit does not pass:



| Score    | Wait Period before Retake |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| 00 - 49% | 30 days                   |
| 50 - 79% | 14 days                   |

> Three failed attempts at the Tower Written Test results in a 90 day wait period to restart the process. This may be modified at Recruiter and/or IFATC Manager discretion if necessary. Recruiters **must**{.red} use the "pause application" function on the dashboard with a 90 day cooldown (and ensure that a user note is added with the reasoning)



Tip

: Once a Recruit passes the Tower Written Test, they will become eligible for training if they want it. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that Recruits are aware of this *(see [7.3.2](/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.3-tower-written-and-practical-tests#7.3.2) above)*. Trainers **should**{.red} inform Recruiters if a Trainee's performance is of concern, and if this has resulted in termination of training. Recruiters will then have discretion as to whether this effects the Trainee's eligibility criteria to join the IFATC Team *(see [7A.2.6](/guide/atc-manual/7a.-trainers/7a.2-training-structure#7a.2.6) above)*



## Radar

### 7C.4.2

Once a Recruit has taken the Radar Written Test, the final score will determine whether or not the process can continue. A **pass mark of 70% or more must**{.red} be achieved to move onto Radar Training and the Radar Practical Test (provided the Trainer has endorsed* this). The following wait periods are required if a Recruit does not pass:



| Score    | Wait Period before Retake |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| 00 - 40% | 30 days                   |
| 41 - 69% | 14 days                   |

> Three failed attempts at the Radar Written Test results in a 90 day wait period (although restarting the process is not required and can continue after the wait period expires)



**Once the Radar Written Test has been passed, the Recruit **must**{.red} complete Radar Training and have the permission of the Trainer to move onto the Radar Practical Test*

