---
id: 7c.5-practical-test
title: 7C.5 Practical Test
meta: This page outlines details on the practical test for Tower and Radar during the recruitment process.
order: 5
auth: recruiters
---

# 7C.5 Practical Test



## Tower

### 7C.5.1

Once the Tower Written Test has been successfully passed, the Recruit can move onto the Tower Practical Test *(see [7B.1](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.1-testing-process#7b.1-testing-process) and [7B.2](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.2-tower-testing#7b.2-tower-testing) above)*. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that the Recruit is provided with adequate notice, including a time and location of the test once this has been agreed *(see [7C.1.3](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.1-overview#7c.1.3) below)*. If the Recruit has been trained by the Recruiter, another Recruiter **should**{.red} administer the test *(see [7C.1.4](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.1-overview#7c.1.4) above)*.



### 7C.5.2

Recruiters **must**{.red} utilize the "Add Session" function (and ensure "Practical Test" is selected under "Type") within the Recruit's ATC Recruitment profile before a scheduled test. This will send an automatic notification to the *#test-time* Discord channel for pilots. Once the specific channel to be used for that session is established, all subsequent coordination **should**{.red} only be in that channel.



> The notification is sent 30 minutes before the start time unless the session was added with less than 30 minutes notice, in which case the notification will be immediate



### 7C.5.3

On completion of the Tower Practical Test, the Recruiter **must**{.red} inform the Recruit of the result. The following wait periods are required if a Recruit does not pass:



| Performance  | Wait Period before Retake |
| ------------ | ------------------------- |
| Poor         | 30 days                   |
| Marginal     | 14 days                   |
| Undetermined | Recruiter Discretion      |

> Three failed attempts at the Tower Practical Test results in a 90 day wait period to restart the process. A "no show" to a scheduled test does not constitute an attempt however will result in a 14 day wait period before retake unless a valid reason (as determined by the Recruiter) is given. A subsequent "no show" will result in termination of the recruitment process. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that they document everything in the Recruit's "User Notes" *(see [7C.1.6](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.1-overview#7c.1.6) above)*.



### 7C.5.4

Provided that both the Tower Written and Practical Tests have been passed, the Recruit can be invited to join the IFATC Team (this process is automatic when the "Passed Practical" button is tapped within the Recruits "ATC Recruitment" profile).



## Radar

### 7C.5.5

Once the Radar Written Test has been successfully passed, the Recruit can move onto the Radar Practical Test following permission from their Trainer *(see [7B.1](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.1-testing-process#7b.1-testing-process) and [7B.3](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.3-radar-testing#7b.3-radar-testing) above)*. Recruiters **must**{.red} ensure that the Recruit is provided with adequate notice, including a time and location of the test once this has been agreed *(see [7C.1.3](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.1-overview#7c.1.3) above)*. If the Recruit has been trained by the Recruiter, another Recruiter **should**{.red} administer the test *(see [7C.1.4](/guide/atc-manual/7c.-recruiters/7c.1-overview#7c.1.4) above)*.



> If the Recruit is part of the *#testers* group, they **must**{.red} be removed **BEFORE** commencement of the test. Recruiters **must**{.red} post in *#recruiters* with adequate notice to allow a Moderator the time to remove the individual - once the test is completed, they can be re-added in the same way



### 7C.5.6

Recruiters **must**{.red} utilize the "Add Session" function (and ensure "Practical Test" is selected under "Type") within the Recruit's ATC Recruitment profile before a scheduled test. This will send an automatic notification to the *#test-time* Discord channel for pilots. Once the specific channel to be used for that session is established, all subsequent coordination **should**{.red} only be in that channel.



> The notification is sent 30 minutes before the start time unless the session was added with less than 30 minutes notice, in which case the notification will be immediate



### 7C.5.7

On completion of the Radar Practical test, the Recruiter **must**{.red} inform the Recruit of the result. The following wait periods are required if a Recruit does not pass:



| Performance  | Wait Period before Retake |
| ------------ | ------------------------- |
| Poor         | 30 days                   |
| Marginal     | 14 days                   |
| Undetermined | Recruiter Discretion      |

> Three failed attempts at the Radar Practical Test results in a 90 day wait period (although restarting the process is not required and can continue after the wait period expires) 



### 7C.5.8

Provided that both the Radar Written and Practical Tests have been passed, the Recruit can be promoted to the rank of Officer (this process is automatic when the "Passed Practical" button is tapped within the Recruits "ATC Recruitment" profile).

