---
id: 8.10-visual-approach
title: 8.10 Visual Approach
meta: How to provide aircraft with a Visual Approach in Infinite Flight.
order: 10
---

# 8.10  Visual Approach

 

### 8.10.1    

A visual approach is an approach to a runway at an aerodrome conducted under IFR but where the pilot proceeds by visual reference when cleared to do so. This means that the pilot **must** be visual before the controller can clear the aircraft for the visual approach.



### 8.10.2    

Although similar to Radar Vectors, the underlying difference is that when aircraft are under Radar Vectors, they will not receive an approach clearance. Therefore when aircraft call in following Radar Vectors, Tower would issue a pattern entry, a sequence (if required) and then a clearance. Whereas with the visual approach, they do not require a pattern entry because they have been cleared for the approach, therefore only a sequence (if required) and a clearance is issued by Tower.



### 8.10.3    

There are multiple ways in which a visual approach can be given to the pilot but generally speaking, and terrain permitting; the aircraft **should** be positioned in a recognisable position such as downwind, base, or even straight in. The approach controller must then ask the aircraft to ‘report the airfield in sight’ (note that controllers can still continue to issue vectors to the pilot after requesting the pilot to ‘report the airfield in sight’). Once the pilot has responded with the airfield in sight, the approach controller can clear them for the visual approach (with or without a final vector) and then hand them off to Tower/Unicom as appropriate.



### 8.10.4    

There are some specific procedures for various aerodromes but this relies on both the controller and pilot using the correct chart. This can be adopted using the same method as already outlined *(see 8.7.6 above).*



### 8.10.5    

The Visual Approach at Madeira, Portugal (LPMA) onto RWY05 *(see image 8.10.5.1 below)* is a good example of a specific procedure. For this procedure the controller would need to vector aircraft towards the start of the procedure, in this case, the Funchal (FUN) VOR. From there the controller can vector the aircraft outbound on a heading that would give the pilot as close to the chart as possible, in this case, heading 210 or similar. The minimum altitude for the approach is 940ft but to satisfy terrain separation requirements, rounding up to 1000ft would be recommended. The pilot can then be instructed to report the airport in sight, and once they have, cleared for the visual approach and handed over to Tower. In this particular case, the aircraft would essentially be handed over on a right downwind for RWY05, however if the pilot fails to report the airport in sight, further vectors may be required to ensure they continue to follow the prescribed tracks until they have confirmed that they are visual with the airport.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.10.5.1)

 