---
id: 8.7-approach-and-stars
title: 8.7 Approach and STARs
meta: How to control Approach and the use of STARs within Infinite Flight.
order: 7
---

# 8.7  Approach and STARs

 

### 8.7.1    

Approach airspace is up to FL180 and 50nm around the airport although airport elevation can be taken into account if it is deemed significant *(see 7.1.1 above)*. Below is a checklist of what you **must** be aware of **BEFORE** opening an approach facility (it is also recommended to fly the approach yourself, this will enable you to determine the ideal altitudes and vectors required for a good approach service):

 

\-    Airport Elevation: By determining what the elevation is, this can be used to find the best intercept altitudes *(see 8.8.5 below)*

\-    Runway Exits: Rapid Exit Taxiways (RETs) will allow aircraft to exit the runway quicker than a 90 degree exit or if the aircraft has to back-taxi to exit, this **should** be taken into account when spacing aircraft on final approach

\-    If there are controllers on the tower frequencies under your coverage area, liaise with them to confirm departure/arrival strategies and runway(s) in use. In addition, make prior arrangements with other radar controllers for handover points, altitudes, and headings when aircraft are travelling between airports *(see 5.5.1 above)*

\-    Airport Plates: Controllers **should** access approach plates for the airfield as it will increase your situational awareness, and in particular; terrain awareness *(see 8.7.6 below)*

 

### 8.7.2    

Operating a radar frequency typically comes with a higher workload which is why extensive training is carried out before controllers are granted the privilege. Controlling aircraft from different directions in altitude, heading & speed, ensuring separation rules are adhered to, and still providing an expeditious service are some of the reasons that contribute to this *(see 8.7.2.1 below).*



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.7.2.1)

 

### 8.7.3    

**BEFORE** opening, controllers **must** ensure that they have a plan to manage the expected workload – this will considerably help in providing a good service to pilots and begins with the Initial Vector.



### 8.7.4    

Aircraft can contact Approach up to 65nm out from the airport reference point, the most common technique used is to initially send the aircraft in the ‘general’ direction of the airport with an altitude that is above 10,000ft (however terrain **must** always be taken into account). This allows for two things, it gets the aircraft descending so that they are at a more suitable altitude when they reach the area that you will vector them within, and secondly, allows them to maintain above 250kts IAS so that you get them there as expeditiously as possible. Of course, controllers may need to adapt this plan to effectively manage their airspace, this could include (but not limited to) descending aircraft below 10,000ft to ensure there speed is below 250kts IAS, sending aircraft to a specified area before streaming for the approach, or sending aircraft into the hold.

 

### 8.7.5

Standard Terminal Arrival Routes, known as STARs, are a published flight procedure that are following by aircraft on an IFR flight plan from an intermediate altitude and are available in select regions of Infinite Flight. STARs allow aircraft to arrive following a pre-defined route (and in some cases with altitude/speed restrictions) that help them navigate adjacent airspaces, terrain and departing traffic. Controllers **should** let aircraft continue on a STAR to the maximum extent possible for arrival unless vectors are required for sequencing or traffic avoidance. 

 

### 8.7.6    

Approach charts can generally be found online by searching in any search engine for ‘approach charts’ with the related ICAO code; controllers **should** familiarise themselves with how to read these charts as it will increase the controller’s situational awareness. In addition, controllers are encouraged to utilise https://www.ifatc.org/ - this site has been designed by one of our controllers and is a fantastic tool which can allow the controller to monitor aircraft and the terrain around them, in real time.

 

### 8.7.7    

The MSA (Minimum Sector Altitude) is an area in which an aircraft can be safely vectored and have guaranteed terrain clearance provided the aircraft is not cleared below the altitude displayed within that sector. Most Jeppesen STAR (Standard Terminal Arrival Route) Charts have a MSA displayed *(see 8.7.7.1 below).* Note: The magenta lines are used to make a circle with segments (normally based around the airport itself), each segment contains an altitude which will guarantee terrain separation (note: controllers can vector aircraft below this altitude if terrain clearance is assured).



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.7.7.1)

 

### 8.7.8

From the image *(see 8.7.7.1 above)* it can be assumed that aircraft approaching from the North will be clear of terrain down to 5100ft, aircraft from the South down to 4500ft and aircraft from out over the sea down to 3500ft. You can work out where these segments roughly are by looking at the navigation aids in the area, you can see the SAU VOR is just to the north of the airport and the OSI VOR to the south. In addition, by flying the approach yourself before you control there, you can continue to build a full picture. Where are the high points of terrain, what is the best intercept altitude and so on.