---
id: 8.8-instrument-landing-system-(ils)-approach
title: 8.8 Instrument Landing System (ILS) Approach
meta: How to vector aircraft for the ILS Approach in Infinite Flight.
order: 8
---

# 8.8  Instrument Landing System (ILS) Approach

 

### 8.8.1    

In terms of vectoring in IF, the GPS Approach is the same as the ILS Approach, therefore only the ILS Approach will be covered in this section.



### 8.8.2    

The ILS consists of two beams, the Localiser (LOC), providing lateral guidance (left/right) and the Glideslope (G/S) providing vertical guidance (up/down).



### 8.8.3    

The cone at the end of a runway provides a **VISUAL AID** for both pilots and controllers of where the LOC and G/S are, however it is important to remember that the LOC and G/S are not confined to the cone. The LOC and G/S are independent radio ‘signals’ that are sent out, and thus continue to go out. Aircraft can receive these signals and therefore intercept them - both within the cone or outside of the cone (up to a maximum of 25nm out from the runway threshold).

 

### 8.8.4    

To intercept the LOC of an ILS, controllers must issue an intercept heading; this heading **should** be as close to 30 degrees as possible, offset from the runway designator *(see 8.8.4.1 below)*. The intercept heading needs to give the aircraft a good closing angle to get onto the LOC expeditiously and thus 10 degrees or less **should** be avoided. Although the standard method for determination of the intercept headings to be used **should** be based off the runway designator (e.g. for RWY 18, 30 degree intercepts would be headings 150 and 210), controllers may need to take into account the actual runway heading if it is considered significantly different (e.g. KMIA RWY 08R has an actual heading of 092). In this example, the ideal intercept headings would be 060 or 120 degrees.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.8.4.1)



### 8.8.5    

To intercept the G/S of an ILS, controllers **must** issue an altitude that is below the G/S path *(see 8.8.5.1 below).* The typical G/S follows a 3 degree flight path angle that guides the aircraft to the runway threshold. At 1nm the G/S altitude would be 300ft AAL (above aerodrome level); at 2nm, 600ft AAL and so on. 



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.8.5.1)

 

### 8.8.6    

As already mentioned *(see 8.8.3 above)*, the cone is a useful **VISUAL AID** that controllers can utilise for the ILS or GPS approach. The cones have a standard length of about 11nm and thus the G/S altitude at this point is approximately 3500ft AAL. Although this will assist in determining the best altitudes to use for the intercept, it will also be affected by the following:

 

\-    Terrain

\-    Aircraft position

\-    Elevation of aerodrome

 

To ensure that aircraft intercept the G/S from below controllers must use an altitude that is lower than the G/S at the point of interception *(see 8.8.5 above)* – by convention, this tends to be 500ft lower but there is no hard rule on this. For example, Airport A has an elevation of 1000ft, therefore the G/S altitude at the end of the cone is approximately 4500ft. Assuming the aircraft is intercepting at the end of the cone, an altitude of 4000ft would be a sensible intercept altitude (based on no terrain to effect apart from the airport elevation). If the aircraft was to intercept further out than the cone, or even within the cone itself, then you will need to adjust the intercept altitude to allow the aircraft to not be above the G/S when intercepting. Without flying the approach before controlling and/or using approach plates, it will be difficult to determine the best altitudes that ensure terrain separation and a good intercept!

 

### 8.8.7    

To further assist controllers, range rings are provided which symbolise airspace around the airport. Although we currently do not use these as limits for our airspace, they can be useful in determining the following:

 

\-    distance between two aircraft on final approach

\-    and the glideslope altitude at a particular point

 

For class B airports, the range rings are at 3, 8 and 12nm *(see 8.8.7.1 below)*. For Class C airports, the range rings are at 3 and 6nm *(see 8.8.7.2 below)*. And finally for Class D airports, the range ring is at 2nm (no image provided).

 

Class B:

| Range Ring | Approximate Altitude AAL |
| ---------- | ------------------------ |
| 3nm        | 900ft                    |
| 8nm        | 2400ft                   |
| 12nm       | 3600ft                   |



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.8.7.1)



Class C:

| Range Ring | Approximate Altitude AAL |
| ---------- | ------------------------ |
| 3nm        | 900ft                    |
| 6nm        | 1800ft                   |





Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.8.7.2)