---
id: 1a.1-joining
title: 1A.1 Joining
meta: How to join the Scenery Editor Team of Infinite Flight.
order: 1
---



# 1A.1 Joining



### 1A.1.1

The Infinite Flight Scenery Editing Team is a private group, all Editors are selected with access strictly controlled by Infinite Flight staff. All new Editors **must**{.red} read this manual in its entirety and ensure that they comply with the rules and procedures at all times. 



### 1A.1.2

On joining the Scenery Editor Team and uploading airports using the Scenery Editor, all Editors agree to the [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://github.com/flyingdevelopmentstudio/infiniteflight-localization/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).



### 1A.1.3

Below are some of the general rules of the Scenery Editing Team however all other rules are contained within this manual *(see [1A.3](/guide/scenery-editor-manual/1a.-administration/1a.3-editor-rules) below)*:

- No leaking, sharing or discussion about the team or the Scenery Editor 
- Always maintain a professional standard
- Active reporting of issues **should**{.red} be undertaken regularly
- All discussion and reporting **must**{.red} be done within the [Scenery Editing](https://community.infiniteflight.com/c/scenery-editing/47) IFC category
- You **must**{.red} have an Infinite Flight account
- All Editors **must**{.red} be 13 years of age and above
- All Editors **must**{.red} disclose any issues of misconduct on the IFC, in Virtual Airline/Organisation communities or in any other Community related to Infinite Flight prior to joining. Failure to disclose this will result in removal from
  the team
- If any rules are broken, removal will be immediate and without further warning. A zero-strike policy is adhered to and once removed, Editors are not permitted to return



## Frequently Asked Questions

### 1A.1.4

Q - Do I get a free Pro Subscription when I join the Scenery Editing team?

*Being part of the team does not grant you a free subscription. The group is purely voluntary and
no special measures are granted to its members.*

Q - Do I get access to beta?

*No, the Scenery Editing team does not give you access to beta.*

Q - I am going on holiday; do I have to let a staff member know?

*Not directly, no. What you must do is make a note in the topics of any airports you have under
construction.*
Q - How do I report issues with the Scenery Editor?
*All issues **must**{.red} be reported within the [Scenery Editing](https://community.infiniteflight.com/c/scenery-editing/47) IFC category. You **must**{.red} follow the template
found within #scenery-editing:issues when reporting. Additionally, you **must**{.red} also send a log when reporting issues. If you have any questions about how to report, please ask in the category or contact a staff member.*
