---
id: 1a.3-rank-structure
title: 1A.3 Rank Structure
meta: Infinite Flight Airport Editing Rank Structure.
order: 3
hidden: true
---

# 1A.3  Rank Structure

 

### 1A.3.1    

The table below outlines the rank structure in place. Promotion is based on activity, performance, and feedback:

 

| Rank       | Airport Available | Airport Assignment Required | Conduct Peer/Official Reviews |
| ---------- | ----------------- | --------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Apprentice | All               | Yes*                        | No                            |
| Editor     | All               | No                          | Only Peer Reviews             |
| Reviewer   | All               | No                          | Only Official Reviews         |

**Apprentices **must not**{.red} be assigned more than one airport at a time, unless the airport has been submitted for an Official Review *(see [11.1.4](/guide/scenery-editor-manual/11.-review-and-release/11.1-review-and-release-process#11.1.4) below)*. Apprentice's may be assigned (and begin editing) their next airport whilst awaiting feedback from their airport in review, but **must**{.red} prioritize completing this airport once feedback has been given*



> All Editors are subject to promotion/demotion at any time based on activity, performance and feedback!



## Promotion to Editor

### 1A.3.2

Promotion to the rank of Editor is dealt with on a case by case basis, and not solely on time served. With this in mind, Apprentice's **must**{.red} avoid asking when they will be promoted; and instead, **should**{.red} focus on editing airports to a high standard. Editors will be notified when they have been promoted.



## Promotion to Reviewer 

### 1A.3.3

The rank of Reviewer is only awarded when a need exists and to Editors that have demonstrated a high standard of airport editing and professional conduct within the Airport Editing team. Their role is to assist in the day-to-day operations of the Airport Editing team, provide leadership and/or mentoring of individual Editors, monitor editing quality via the "Official Review" process, and to moderate the Airport Editing Discord server. The following prerequisites are required for promotion to the rank of Reviewer:



- Editor rank with demonstrated proficiency in **all** aspects of airport editing
- Proficient editor who leads by example and follows all server rules
- Positive editing record
- Ability to communicate respectfully and professionally



## Other Airport Editing Roles

### 1A.3.4

In addition to the rank structure outlined above, individuals may hold other roles within the Airport Editing team. These are shown below:



| Title     | Role                                                         | Rank |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---- |
| Moderator | Moderates the Airport Editing team, including day to day operations, quality assurance, personnel issues, performance and disciplinary demotions and/or suspensions | N/A  |



> IFC Moderators are present within the Airport Editing team however Airport Moderators will usually deal with most day to day tasks