---
id: 1a.4-rank-structure
title: 1A.4 Rank Structure
meta: Infinite Flight Airport Editing Rank Structure.
order: 4
auth: scenery
---

# 1A.4  Rank Structure

 

### 1A.4.1    

The table below outlines the rank structure in place. Promotion is based on activity, performance, and feedback:

 

| Rank          | Airport Assignment Required | View WIP Airports | Conduct Peer/Official Reviews |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Apprentice    | Yes*                        | No**              | No                            |
| Senior Editor | No                          | Yes               | Only Peer Reviews             |
| Reviewer      | No                          | Yes               | Yes***                        |

**Apprentices **must not**{.red} be assigned more than one airport at a time, unless the airport has been submitted for an Official Review *(see [12.1.4](/guide/scenery-editor-manual/12.-review-and-release/12.1-review-and-release-process#12.1.4) below)*. Apprentices may be assigned (and begin editing) their next airport whilst awaiting feedback from their airport in review, but **must**{.red} prioritize completing this airport once feedback has been given*



***Apprentices are only able to view airports that are assigned to them, any WIP airports are invisible until they have been released or the Apprentice is promoted to Senior Editor*



****When conducting Official Reviews, Reviewers will not make any edits to the airport unless it is deemed very small and does not require feedback to the Editor. Any large changes will be sent to the Editor so that they can make the changes required.*



> All Editors are subject to promotion/demotion at any time based on activity, performance and feedback!



## Promotion to Editor

### 1A.4.2

Promotion to the rank of Editor is dealt with on a case by case basis and not solely on time served. With this in mind, Apprentices **must**{.red} avoid asking when they will be promoted; and instead, **should**{.red} focus on editing airports to a high standard. Editors will be notified when they have been promoted.



## Promotion to Reviewer 

### 1A.4.3

The rank of Reviewer is only awarded when a need exists and to Editors that have demonstrated a high standard of airport editing and professional conduct within the Airport Editing team.



The purpose of the Reviewer Team is to:

- Assist in the day-to-day operations of the Scenery Editing Team
- Provide leadership and/or mentoring to individual Editors
- Assign airports to Editors with the rank of Apprentice 
- Review editing quality via the "Official Review" process*
- and Moderate the Scenery Editing Team Discord channel



**Reviewers **should not**{.red} upload changes on behalf of the editors during the Official Review process without the editors' explicit consent in the interest of the editors' skill improvement and respect towards the editors' work, unless the issues found during the Official Review process are minor, not consistently present, and a new OR cycle for the airport would not be considered reasonable if they were left for the airport's editor to fix. Examples of minor issues are improperly snapped lines, buildings and/or pavements, and lines with 1 or more inaccurate properties. Reviewers are advised to use their judgement regarding the consistency and severity of the issues found proportionally to the size and complexity of the airport subject to review. For example, 3 improperly snapped lines would not be as big of an issue at KLAX, but they would be at a small GA field. If a Reviewer does decide to upload changes on behalf of the editors during the Official Review process, a summary of the changes made, preferably including screenshots, **should**{.red} be provided for the sake of respect towards the editors' work.*



### 1A.4.4

The following prerequisites are required for promotion to the rank of Reviewer:



- Editor rank with demonstrated proficiency in **all** aspects of airport editing
- Proficient editor who leads by example and follows all server rules
- Positive editing record
- Ability to communicate respectfully and professionally



## Other Airport Editing Roles

### 1A.4.5

In addition to the rank structure outlined above, individuals may hold other roles within the Airport Editing team. These are shown below:



| Title     | Role                                                         | Rank |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---- |
| Moderator | Moderates the Airport Editing team, including day to day operations, quality assurance, personnel issues, performance and disciplinary demotions and/or suspensions | N/A  |



> IFC Moderators are present within the Airport Editing team; however, Airport Moderators will usually deal with most day-to-day tasks