---
id: 6.4-departure-check-in
title: 6.4 Departure / Check In
meta: How to control departure, manage SIDs and the expected use of the Check In function.
order: 4
---

# 6.4  Departure / Check In

 

## Departure and SIDs

### 6.4.1    

Departure control typically includes managing:

 

 -    VFR aircraft, with or without a flight plan

 -    and IFR aircraft (which **should**{.red} have a flight plan)

 

### 6.4.2    

If straight-out departures are in use, the Departure and Tower Controllers **should**{.red} coordinate to ensure a seamless service *(see [3.6](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.6-tower-working-with-radar#3.6-tower-working-with-radar) above)*.



### 6.4.3    

Standard Instrument Departures, known as SIDs, are a published flight procedure that are followed by aircraft on an IFR flight plan immediately after departure. SIDs allow aircraft to depart an airspace following a pre-defined route (and in some cases with altitude/speed restrictions) that help them navigate adjacent airspaces, terrain and arriving traffic. Controllers **should**{.red} let aircraft continue on a SID to the maximum extent possible after departure (therefore vectors and/or altitude assignments are not required on initial contact) unless required for sequencing or traffic avoidance. Due to this, Controllers **should**{.red} limit the use of "Straight Out Dept." to accommodate SIDs which often involve turns away from the airport shortly after departure *(see [3.2.9](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.2-departures#3.2.9) and [4.1.6](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.1-atis#4.1.6) above)*.



## The Use of Check In

### 6.4.4    

The Check In feature serves two primary functions:

 

 -    Requesting an IFR Radar Control Service from the **FIRST** Radar Controller the pilot contacts

 - Advising a Radar Controller that they are on your frequency **AFTER BEING SWITCHED** by a previous radar controller

   

Controllers can expect aircraft to "Check In" after departure if they want to follow their flight plan (including the SID). Controllers **must**{.red} respond to all "Check In" requests with "Radar Contact", this establishes two-way communication, acceptance of the filed flight plan and clearance to their initial cruising altitude. From this point onwards no further communication is required however aircraft can still be vectored or issued altitude assignments if required *(see [6.5.2](https://infiniteflight.com/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.5-flight-following#6.5.2) below).* Controllers **must**{.red} issue "Continue as Filed" when vectors are no longer required (or "Resume Own Navigation" if the aircraft does not have a flight plan).



### 6.4.5

If the aircraft has been provided with a previous service from another radar controller and has been handed over, then the pilot only needs to check in and the service can continue with the new controller.



### 6.4.6    

If however, the pilot wants a different service they will need to request it. If the Radar Controller is unable to provide the previous service, then the Radar Controller will either need to change the service the aircraft can expect, or ask for the pilots intentions.

  

  