---
id: 6.6-center
title: 6.6 Center
meta: How to control Center and IFR Semi-Circular Rules in Infinite Flight.
order: 6
---

# 6.6 Center


@[vimeo](423210474)


## What is Center?



### 6.6.1    

Center airspace is from surface up to FL600 and is defined by the white boundaries on the map. The main two functions of Center are to:

 

 -    Provide separation and services to all IFR/VFR aircraft under their control

 -    And to provide sequence management to traffic during their flight to assist Departure/Approach Controller workload

 

It is important to note that Center does not replace Departure/Approach and therefore, **should**{.red} only be used to support a Departure/Approach frequency by providing upper air traffic management and sequencing. If however, no departure and/or approach frequency is present, the Center Controller can manage this airspace too.

 

## Climb



### 6.6.2 

Aircraft contacting Center in the climb after departure, or after being handed over from a Departure Controller will usually utilize the "Check In" function. The Radar Control Service (or previous service if different) will just continue *(see [6.4.4](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.4-departure-check-in#6.4.4) above)*. Aircraft can however, still be vectored or issued altitude assignments if required *(see [6.5.2](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.5-flight-following#6.5.2) above).* Controllers **must**{.red} issue "Continue as Filed" when vectors are no longer required (or "Resume Own Navigation" if the aircraft does not have a flight plan).



### 6.6.3 

Aircraft may request a different service if they wish, the Center Controller **must**{.red} determine what level of service can be offered based on their workload. If aircraft are flying VFR or do not have a flight plan, the use of "Resume Own Navigation" should be used instead of "Continue as Filed" *(see [6.5.3](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.5-flight-following#6.5.3) and [6.5.5](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.5-flight-following#6.5.5) above)*.



## Cruise



### 6.6.4

During this phase of flight for aircraft, Controllers **should**{.red} focus on:



- aircraft that are active/away to provide separation *(see [6.6.5](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.6-center#6.6.5) below)*
- issue speed commands for traffic flow management
- and pass aircraft onto adjacent facilities at the boundary of their airspace *(see [5.1.1](/guide/atc-manual/5.-airspace/5.1-airspace#5.1.1) above)*



### 6.6.5    

Center controllers will be able to see if an aircraft is ‘active’ or ‘away’ by looking at their flight progress strip. Due to this, ‘away’ aircraft **should**{.red} be left alone and conflicts assumed unintentional *(see [1B.1.6](/guide/atc-manual/1b.-violations/1b.1-guidelines#1b.1.6) above for exceptions)*.

 

### 6.6.6

In the cruise phase speed control is essential in traffic flow management, controllers **must**{.red} ensure that they are familiar with typical Mach cruising speeds for aircraft under their control *(see [6.14.5](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.14-aircraft-speed#6.14.5) below)*. An increase or decrease of Mach .01 can change an aircraft's arrival time significantly (dependent on how far ahead the instruction is sent). Therefore to control traffic flow, Center Controllers **should**{.red} utilize speed control where possible (although altitude changes and vectors are always available if required). This will reduce Controller workload and prevent aircraft being taken hundreds of miles off their flight plan.



### 6.6.7

IFR Semi-circular rules are not implemented, however they are something that are good to be kept in mind and can assist controllers with providing separation to large amounts of traffic in the cruise. The table below summarizes:



| Heading           | Level                               |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 360 - 179 degrees | ODD (e.g. FL330, FL350, FL370 etc)  |
| 180 - 359 degrees | EVEN (e.g. FL320, FL340, FL360 etc) |



## STARs



### 6.6.8

Standard Terminal Arrival Routes, known as STARs, are a published flight procedure that are followed by aircraft on an IFR flight plan from an intermediate altitude. STARs allow aircraft to arrive following a pre-defined route (and in some cases with altitude/speed restrictions) that help them navigate adjacent airspaces, terrain and departing traffic. Controllers **should**{.red} let aircraft continue on a STAR to the maximum extent possible for arrival unless vectors are required for an expeditious service, sequencing or traffic avoidance *(see [6.8.4](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.8-approach#6.8.4) below)*. 



### 6.6.9

The Controller can select preferred STARs, offering a variety of authorized procedures from different directions *(see [4.1.7](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.1-atis#4.1.7) above)*; Controllers **should**{.red} review aircraft flight plans on initial contact to determine whether or not they include the preferred STAR for their destination airport. Aircraft not on a preferred STAR **should**{.red} be instructed to "Amend Flight Plan to Include Preferred STAR at Destination" to give the aircraft time to refile. 



## Descent 

### 6.6.10

Aircraft with a filed STAR are expected to 'Check In' on initial contact with Center, if no STAR is present in a pilots flight plan, they **should**{.red} initiate contact by requesting the desired service or approach for their destination airport.



### 6.6.11

A pilot **should**{.red} request descent via the STAR just prior to their Top of Descent (TOD); which Center can respond with either "Descent via the STAR Approved" or "Unable, Expect Vectors". Aircraft that are cleared to descend via the STAR will display their approved STAR on their flight progress strip, allowing all subsequent Controllers to view this information and removing the need for pilots to make duplicate requests with different Controllers. If they are told to expect vectors, then Center **must**{.red} provide heading/altitude assignments, and "Continue as Filed" when complete.  Center may also instruct an aircraft to "Descend via the STAR" if the pilot has not yet requested descent (any built in or pilot amended altitudes assigned to a STAR will be shown on the Controllers scope when an aircraft's icon is tapped). 



### 6.6.12

Aircraft already descending before making contact with Center **should**{.red} be authorized to "Descend via the STAR". Aircraft already established in the decent **should not**{.red} be instructed to "Amend Flight Plan to Include Preferred STAR at Destination" as this could increase pilot workload. Instead, Controllers **should**{.red} issue vectors for sequencing. 



### 6.6.13

Handoffs to the next controlling facility **should**{.red} occur at or prior to the lateral and/or vertical boundary as long as all conflicts are resolved. In addition, Center **must**{.red} ensure all aircraft are continuing to their destination in an organized manner, on their respective procedures and sequenced prior to handing off to Approach.
