---
id: 6.8-approach
title: 6.8 Approach
meta: How to control Approach within Infinite Flight.
order: 8
---

# 6.8  Approach



## What is Approach? 

### 6.8.1    

Approach airspace is from surface up to FL180 and 50nm around the airport although airport elevation can be taken into account if it is deemed significant *(see 5.2.1 above)*. Below is a checklist of what you **must**{.red} be aware of **BEFORE**{.red} opening an approach facility (it is also recommended to fly the approach yourself, this will enable you to determine the ideal altitudes and vectors required for a good approach service):

 

\-    Airport Elevation: By determining what the elevation is, this can be used to find the best intercept altitudes *(see 6.9.5 below)*

\-    Runway Exits: Rapid Exit Taxiways (RETs) will allow aircraft to exit the runway quicker than a 90 degree exit or if the aircraft has to back-taxi to exit, this **should**{.red} be taken into account when spacing aircraft on final approach

\-    If there are Controllers on the tower frequencies under your coverage area, liaise with them to confirm departure/arrival strategies and runway(s) in use. In addition, make prior arrangements with other Radar Controllers for handover points, altitudes, and headings when aircraft are travelling between airports *(see 3.5.1 above)*

\-    Airport Plates: Controllers **should**{.red} access approach plates for the airfield as it will increase your situational awareness, and in particular; terrain awareness *(see 6.8.6 below)*

 

## STARs and Initial Vectoring

### 6.8.2    

It is important to note that most STARs normally occur in Approach airspace *(see 5.1.1 above)*, however if Center controllers are present, coordination **must**{.red} take place between **ALL**{.red} controllers involved to ensure a seamless service is provided.



### 6.8.3

Aircraft that were previously cleared for descent via the STAR and handed over to Approach, **must**{.red} be re-sent 'Descent via the STAR Approved' to ensure the pilot is aware they have continued descent clearance.  Aircraft handed over that were receiving vectors **should**{.red} have this service continued unless it is possible to utilize the STAR that the pilot has in their Flight Plan. Thereafter, handling of aircraft **must**{.red} be treated in the same manner as Center *(see 6.6.8 to 6.6.12 above)*.

 

### 6.8.4

Controllers **should**{.red} let aircraft continue on a STAR to the maximum extent possible for arrival unless vectors are required for an expeditious service, sequencing or traffic avoidance *(see 6.8.5 below)*. The Controller can select preferred STARs, offering a variety of authorized procedures from different directions *(see 4.1.7 above)*; aircraft not on a preferred STAR **should**{.red} be instructed to 'Amend Flight Plan to Include Preferred STAR at Destination' *(see 6.6.8 above)*, unless the aircraft is established in the descent *(see 6.6.11 above)*.



### 6.8.5

Traffic and terrain permitting, aircraft **must**{.red} be given the most direct routing possible, and therefore **should not**{.red} be made to fly a full STAR procedure when these conditions exist. 



## Approach Charts

### 6.8.6    

Approach charts can generally be found online by searching in any search engine for ‘approach charts’ with the related ICAO code; Controllers **should**{.red} familiarize themselves with how to read these charts as it will increase the Controller’s situational awareness. In addition, Controllers are encouraged to utilize https://www.ifatc.org/ - this site has been designed by one of our Controllers and is a fantastic tool which can allow the controller to monitor aircraft and the terrain around them, in real time.

 

### 6.8.7    

The MSA (Minimum Sector Altitude) is an area in which an aircraft can be safely vectored and have guaranteed terrain clearance provided the aircraft is not cleared below the altitude displayed within that sector. Most Charts have an MSA displayed *(see 6.8.7.1 below)* within segments of a circle (normally based around the airport itself or a navigation aid). Each segment contains an altitude which will guarantee terrain separation but Controllers can vector aircraft below this altitude if terrain clearance is assured.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 6.8.7.1)

 

### 6.8.8

From the image *(see 6.8.7.1 above)* it can be assumed that aircraft approaching from the North will be clear of terrain down to 5100ft, aircraft from the South down to 4500ft and aircraft from out over the sea down to 3500ft. By flying the approach yourself before you control there, you can continue to build a full picture. Where are the high points of terrain, what is the best intercept altitude and so on.