---
id: 6.9-global-positioning-system-(gps)-approach
title: 6.9 Global Positioning System (GPS) Approach
meta: How to control GPS Approaches within Infinite Flight.
order: 9
---

# 6.9  Global Positioning System (GPS) Approach



@[vimeo](442728868)



### 6.9.1

The Global Positioning System (GPS) Approach is a non-precision approach within IF but is not commonly used as functionality is currently limited. If however, pilots request this type of approach, Controllers **should**{.red} try to accommodate this when traffic permits. The GPS Approach is defined by a series of waypoints and altitude restrictions that the pilot will follow to the runway threshold, free of conventional guidance such as a localizer/glideslope etc.



### 6.9.2

When a pilot requests the GPS Approach, Controllers **must**{.red} check that the aircraft has a published procedure (i.e. denoted by a prefix in their flight plan - *see [6.8.9](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.8-approach#6.8.9) above*) that provides lateral navigation to the intended arrival runway. Controllers can then expect aircraft to continue on their Flight Plan, and at an appropriate point (such as base), clear the aircraft for the GPS Approach. Vectors, altitude assignments, and/or intercepts **should not**{.red} be required and the pilot is expected to follow their flight plan to the runway threshold.



Tip

: If pilots edit their flight plan (such as removing the missed approach segment), it may remove the prefix showing that they have a published procedure. Controllers **should**{.red}, in this case, use their best judgement and if the procedure looks correct, a GPS Approach can still be granted



### 6.9.3

Once the aircraft is established (this may not be inline with the runway for various GPS Approaches that are offset) Controllers can then hand them off to Tower/Unicom as appropriate.



### 6.9.4

Controllers can favor utilizing vectors in the following cases: 



- if a STAR does not lead aircraft onto the final approach

- if it would not be expeditious to allow aircraft to fly their entire flight plan with **CURRENT** traffic levels

- or if the aircraft has declared a missed approach

  

In these instances, Controllers **should**{.red} provide the aircraft with vectors to the Initial Approach Fix (IAF) as a **MINIMUM**; and in **ALL** cases, **must**{.red} ensure that the aircraft is able to establish inbound on the GPS Approach. Once this is assured **AND** the observed track of the aircraft suggests a successful rejoin, the aircraft can be cleared for the GPS Approach (*see [6.9.2](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.9-global-positioning-system-(gps)-approach#6.9.2) above*).



**Establish inbound is defined as a vector that will allow the aircraft to join the FPL or the Controller sending "Continue as Filed" to allow the aircraft to make their own way to the FPL*
