---
id: 8.11-handover-to-tower/unicom
title: 8.11 Handover to Tower/Unicom
meta: How to hand aircraft over to Tower/Unicom on Infinite Flight.
order: 11
---

# 8.11  Handover to Tower/Unicom

 

### 8.11.1    

Before the Controller can hand an aircraft over to Tower/Unicom they **must**{.red} ensure that the aircraft has successfully established on the ‘intended approach path’ **AND**{.red} has an acceptable closure rate with the aircraft ahead.

 

### 8.11.2    

The ‘intended approach path’ for Radar Vectors and a Visual Approach are covered above *(see 8.9.1 and 8.10.3 above respectively)*. For the ILS/GPS approach, Controllers **must**{.red} ensure that the aircraft has successfully intercepted the LOC, this is especially important when parallel operations are in use *(see 8.11.2.1 below)*. Do not confuse aircraft being established on the LOC, with ‘being in the cone’ – aircraft must be aligned with the centreline of the runway to be established, regardless of their position inside or outside of the cone.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.11.2.1)

 

### 8.11.3    

Secondly, you **must**{.red} ensure that the aircraft closure rate is ‘acceptable’. So what is ‘acceptable’? You will have to decide but here is an example scenario: if Aircraft A is established on the ILS ahead, and you have just issued the final intercept to Aircraft B, ask yourself what is their relative speed to each other? If Aircraft A is at 180kts GS (Groundspeed), and Aircraft B is intercepting at 250kts GS with only 3nm spacing, what do you think will happen? Don’t give this problem to Tower, they do not have extensive speed commands like you, slow Aircraft B down first, then hand over. All Tower can give to that aircraft is ‘maintain slowest practical speed’, this could then have a knock-on effect if you have a line of aircraft on approach.