---
id: 8.5-flight-following
title: 8.5 Flight Following
meta: How to manage Flight Following as a radar controller on Infinite Flight.
order: 5
---

# 8.5  Flight Following

 

### 8.5.1    

Flight Following on IF is a service that can be requested by a pilot if they have filed a flight plan. Radar Controllers can acknowledge this request and pilots will be expected to continue following their flight plan.



### 8.5.2    

Pilots are however, still subject to vectors and altitude assignments as dictated by traffic, Radar Controllers **must** make this judgement to ensure separation is maintained with the other aircraft in their airspace.



### 8.5.3    

If you do issue a vector and/or altitude assignment, once the risk of conflict is no longer present, you **should** let the pilot know by sending ‘continue as filed’ and/or ‘altitude at your discretion’ respectively (*see 8.5.5 below for exceptions)*. ‘Resume own navigation’ should be used instead of ‘continue as filed’ for aircraft that do not have a flight plan (i.e. VFR traffic, *see 8.5.6 below*) or if the aircraft is no longer expected to return to their flight plan.



### 8.5.4    

A frequency change **should** be issued when the aircraft is departing your airspace **AND** will no longer affect any other aircraft that is under your control.



### 8.5.5    

If an aircraft is inbound to the airport that you are controlling, you can ‘upgrade’ the level of service they have requested (e.g. expect vectors for the ILS Approach) if the traffic does not allow for them to continue on their flight plan. The ‘expect deviation from your flight plan’ command is available if controllers need it.

 

### 8.5.6    

Pilots may request a VFR Flight Following. Controllers **must** handle this traffic in the same way as Flight Following however be aware that the pilot will not have a flight plan *(see 8.5.6.1 below).*

 

Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.5.6.1)

 