---
id: 8.6-center,ifr-semi-circular-rules-and-holding
title: 8.6 Center, IFR Semi-Circular Rules and Holding
meta: How to control Center, IFR Semi-Circular rules and the use of Holding.
order: 6
---

# 8.6 Center, IFR Semi-Circular Rules and Holding

 

### 8.6.1    

Center airspace is from surface up to FL600 and is defined by the white boundaries on the map. The main two functions of Center are to:

 

\-    Provide either IFR separation or VFR services to all aircraft under their control

\-    And to sequence traffic before commencement of the approach

 

It is important to note that Center does not replace Approach and therefore, **should**{red} only be used to support an Approach frequency by providing upper air traffic management and sequencing. If however, no approach frequency is present, the Center Controller can manage Approach airspace too.

 

### 8.6.2    

Center controllers will be able to see if an aircraft is ‘active’ or ‘away’ by looking at their flight progress strip. Due to this, ‘away’ aircraft should be left alone and conflicts assumed unintentional.

 

### 8.6.3    

IFR Semi-circular rules are not implemented, however they are something that are good to be kept in mind and can assist controllers with providing separation to large amounts of traffic in the cruise *(see 8.6.3.1 below).*



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.6.3.1)

 

### 8.6.4    

The use of holds can be a very useful tool for Radar Controllers, in particular, they can help with:

 

\-    Congested airspace

\-    Aircraft that are high to lose altitude

\-    Delay arrivals to assist with clearing a long departure line

\-    A full destination airport

 

### 8.6.5    

Controllers can utilise airports, navigation aids, fixes or the aircraft’s present position for a hold. When selected, it will create a hold that the pilot will be able to follow on their map display, and will also automatically issue a speed command based on the selected altitude for the hold.



### 8.6.6    

Currently holds do not appear on the Radar Controller’s display. Due to this, it is important to know what a pilot is likely to fly if issued with a hold, including the expected flight path for a hold *(see 8.6.7.1 below)*, and the type of hold entries *(see 8.6.9.1 below)*.

 

### 8.6.7

The standard pattern of a hold is shown in the below image *(see 8.6.7.1 below)*:



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.6.7.1)

 

### 8.6.8    

There are three types of hold entries, these are:

 

\-    Direct

\-    Parallel

\-    Teardrop

 

### 8.6.9    

If an aircraft is approaching a hold from the direct entry side as shown in the image *(see 8.6.9.1 below)*, Controllers can expect the aircraft to go ‘direct’ to the origin of the hold and then fly the standard holding pattern from there. For a parallel entry, a flight path similar to the blue line below can be expected before the standard holding pattern is flown. And finally, for the teardrop entry, a flight path similar to the red line.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 8.6.9.1)

 