---
id: 7.1-overview
title: 7.1 Overview
meta: Overview of the Recruitment and Training process within IFATC.
order: 1
---

# 7.1  Overview

 

> It is the responsibility of the Recruit to ensure they meet the minimum requirements **BEFORE** applying. Failure to do so may invalidate the recruitment request and further progression may not be granted for a period of time

 

### 7.1.1    

The Recruitment Team (Recruiters) have two main responsibilities, these are to manage new entrants during the recruitment process to join IFATC and secondly, to administer all written and practical tests, with the final say on the result of the test (i.e. pass/fail).



### 7.1.2    

The Training Team (Trainers) is here to educate and train individuals within their specific area of study as Air Traffic Controllers, ensuring test readiness and a high standard of controlling.



### 7.1.3    

For the purposes of this manual, the following definitions are provided:

 

| Definition | Meaning                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Recruit    | Either a potential IFATC Controller that is in the Tower recruitment process, or a current IFATC Controller that is in the Radar recruitment process |
| Trainee    | A Recruit that has a Trainer assigned and is in the training process |

 

> Controller development is a key aspect within IFATC and so Controllers can seek training at any time for their current position if they feel they need help. Irrespective of being in training or not, Controllers can expect feedback during their time within the IFATC Team **and must utilize this to improve.**{.red}. 

 

### 7.1.4    

All aspects of controlling are trained but Trainees **should**{.red} be aware of areas they wish to target so that the time allocated can be utilized to the Controllers benefit. **The Trainer reserves the right to terminate training at any time if they deem that the Trainee is not progressing or showing the dedication required.**{.red} Trainees **must not**{.red} have more than 1 training session in any 24 hour period.



> Although training sessions usually last approximately 30 minutes, they can vary in length, and therefore all attendees **must**{.red} ensure that they are available for the entirety of the session



### 7.1.5

The *#training-time* Discord channels are used by Trainers to coordinate training sessions for a Trainee by announcing how many pilots are required to join, and in which channel. Controllers that wish to participate in these training sessions by flying can opt in to notifications by "reacting" to the relevant role in the *#role-assignments* Discord channel *(see [1A.1.2](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.1-discord-communication#1a.1.2) above)*. 



Any Controller that participates in training sessions is expected to fly in the most standard and predictable way possible to promote a good training environment. Speed and climb/descent rates **must**{.red} remain appropriate for the terminal environment and Controllers **must**{.red} react promptly/accurately to all ATC instructions. Disruptive or distracting pilot behaviour during training sessions is not tolerated and may result in being disconnected or reported. This will then be handled in the same way as other violations that are issued to IFATC *(see [1A.8.2](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.8-disciplinary-and-suspension-procedure#1a.8.2) above)*.



**Recommended profile for commercial aircraft:**

| Pattern  | Speed          |
| -------- | -------------- |
| Downwind | 210 - 250 KIAS |
| Base     | 180 - 210 KIAS |
| Final    | 160 - 180 KIAS |

