---
id: 7.5-radar-theory-and-practical-tests
title: 7.5 Radar Theory and Practical Tests
meta: Information on the Radar Theory and Practical Tests for promotion to Officer in IFATC.
order: 5
hidden: true
---

# 7.5 Radar Theory and Practical Tests

 

### 7.5.1    

The minimum requirements for becoming an Officer and subsequently controlling radar facilities is outlined within the rank structure *(see 1A.3.1 above).* Controllers **must**{red} ensure they meet the minimum requirements **BEFORE**{red} contacting a Recruiter. In addition, they **must**{red} have demonstrated a high level of competency in the following areas:

 

\-    Knowledge of this manual in its entirety, complying fully where instructed (i.e. use of **must**{red}/**must not**{red})

\-    Able to manage a high level of traffic on both Ground and Tower frequencies, simultaneously

\-    Controlling at featured airports or the main Bravo airfield’s on the ATC Schedule

\-    Controlling during busy periods such as FNF, weekends and flashflights

 

### 7.5.2    

All training is considered optional with the exception of Radar Training – Controllers that wish to upgrade to Radar **must**{red} have training, and meet the standards required *(see 7.5.4 below)* **BEFORE**{red} The Radar Practical Test.



### 7.5.3

The Recruiter will conduct a review amongst Supervisors on the performance of the Controller that has requested Radar Training. The requirements laid out within this section *(see 7.5.1 above)* will assist the Supervisors in gauging the Controller’s competency and suitability for the role. If the review is deemed successful, the Controller will be instructed to complete the Training Request Form as outlined on the IFC Channel *(see 7.3.3 above)*. If the Controller is considered not to be ready, a set waiting period (minimum of 30 days) will be assigned where the Controller **must**{red} endeavour to address the feedback given. Subsequent reviews will continue until there is no doubt that they are ready for the position.



### 7.5.4    

Following a successfull review and completion of the Training Request Form, a Trainer will be nominated who will contact the Controller and commence Radar Training (training for the position of Radar is mandatory). At an appropriate point during training, as decided by the Trainer; a Recruiter will issue the The Radar Theory Test (and debrief as appropriate on the result) **BEFORE**{red} commencement of The Radar Practical Test. The Radar Practical Test will be organised at the Trainer’s discretion however a Recruiter will be required for the official test *(see 7.1.1 above).* Controlling on the Training Server is only authorised for Controllers that have met the requirements for upgrade to the rank of Officer *(see 1A.3.1 above)*, and have **STARTED**{red} their Radar Training with a Trainer.



### 7.5.5    

Whilst under Training, Controllers may wish to seek fellow Controllers to fly radar patterns on the IFATC Server for extra practice if the Trainer is not available. Provided the Controller has the Trainer’s permission, the use of ‘Training Time’ in #discussions is authorised to try and find Controllers that are free.

 

### 7.5.6    

All aircraft present at The Radar Practical Test **must**{red} fly in accordance with the radar service being provided, and **must not**{red} be bigger than a Boeing 757 (GA and fighter aircraft are also acceptable). The following table lists the items that are included in the Radar Practical test:

 

| **Test Element**     | **Proficiency  Required\***                                  |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Terrain  Separation  | Ensures that a minimum of 1000ft clearance is  maintained with terrain at all times. |
| Aircraft  Separation | Ensures that a minimum of 3nm separation  laterally or 1000ft separation vertically is maintained at all times. |
| Time  Management     | Consistently provides an expeditious approach  to all aircraft under radar control, minimal vectoring to get aircraft in the  correct area for an approach and combined commands (altitude and heading)  where appropriate. |
| Approach  Type       | Able to deliver all types of service as  outlined within this manual, and in particular, consistent timing and the  correct technique (below the G/S) for the intercept heading of the ILS/GPS  Approach. |
| Go-Around            | Correct use of missed-approach command and  subsequent vectoring. Proactive monitoring and use of go-around if aircraft  set up incorrectly for the type of approach they are flying. |

 

\* The recruiter has the final say on the result of the test *(see 7.1.1 above).*

 

### 7.5.7    

Controllers that are successful in The Radar Practical Test will be promoted and placed on probation for a period of at least 30 days. **During this time, Controllers are expected to be responsible in their new role; starting off slowly and ensuring quality of service, over quantity.**{red} Feedback will be given where required, and a review by Supervisors will be conducted at the end of the probation phase. Notification of the result of this review will be given to the Controller and could lead to an extension or demotion if required. Further training will always be provided if needed.

 

### 7.5.8    

A summary of the process for becoming an Officer is contained within the following flow chart:



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 7.5.8.1)