---
id: 1a.3-rank-structure
title: 1A.3 Rank Structure
meta: Air Traffic Controller Rank Structure.
order: 3
hidden: true
---

# 1A.3  Rank Structure

 

Tip

: When you are promoted you will have access to airports that typically have more traffic. It is encouraged that you start off slowly, gradually building up to these more ‘high-volume’ traffic airports within your new classification. This is particularly important during peak times or events such as Friday Night Flight (FNF). If in doubt, ask in #controllers for suggestions before opening – it takes time to get use to heavy traffic, start off **SLOWLY**{.red}

 

### 1A.3.1    

The table below outlines the Rank Structure in place. Promotion is based on activity, performance, feedback and in some cases, a formal test (theory and/or practical).

 

| **Rank**        | **Frequencies  Available** | **Test  Required**              |
| --------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Apprentice      | C / D / ATIS               | Theory and Practical (Initial)  |
| Specialist*     | B / C / D / ATIS           | Practical (Check Ride)          |
| Officer**       | Radar / B / C / D / ATIS   | Theory and Practical (Radar)*** |
| Supervisor** ** | Radar / B / C / D / ATIS   | No                              |

\* On promotion to Specialist, Controllers are placed on probation until the ‘Check Ride’ phase is completed *(see 7.4 below)*.

** A minimum probation period of 30 days assigned on promotion to Officer *(see 7.5.7 below).*

*** Minimum of 60 days at the rank of Specialist and 2000 total operations before commencing training for the rank of Officer – do not contact a Recruiter for radar training before you meet the minimum requirements *(see 7.5.1 below).*

** ** Supervisors are able to control multiple Radar frequencies as well as Tower and Ground frequencies – simultaneously.

 

### 1A.3.2    

All Controllers have the ability to issue a Level 2 or 3 Violation once they have been added to IFATC. Guidelines are contained within this manual *(see 1B.1 below).*



### 1A.3.3    

'Recruiters’ are authorized to invigilate all Theory and Practical tests *(see 7.1.1 below)* in addition to the rank privileges of Supervisor.



### 1A.3.4     

‘Trainers’ are authorized to conduct training for all Practical tests *(see 7.1.2 below)* in addition to the rank privileges of either Officer or Supervisor (dependent on their position within IFATC).



### 1A.3.5    

**All Controllers are subject to promotion/demotion at any time based on activity, performance and feedback.**{.red}

 