---
id: 7b.1-testing-process
title: 7B.1 Testing Process
meta: This page outlines the testing process for IFATC.
order: 1
auth: testers
---

# 7B.1 Testing Process



### 7B.1.1

All tests (regardless of position) are conducted by Recruiters and issued based on the given materials and/or scenarios provided in this section. Testing scenarios will vary from one recruit to the next. This is to ensure that Candidates/Controllers are better prepared for a wide array of situations found in the Expert Server environment. Care should be taken by the Recruiter(s) to avoid issuing the same testing scenario repeatedly. Only those involved in the test **should**{.red} attend (unless previously authorized for a specific purpose) - an audience is not authorized. 



### 7B.1.2

When new Testers are selected, they will be added to the following channels within Discord:



| Channel      | Purpose                                                      |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| #tests       | Recruiters will post in this channel when they require pilots to join in for a Practical Test (Initial or Radar). Testers available for the test can "react" to the post to indicate attendance. If all available slots are already filled, Testers **must not**{.red} "react" to the request |
| #tester [VC] | This can be used for test participants as a general lounge or operationally to coordinate during an active test. All feedback **should**{.red} still given in writing via the test topic |



> All test session coordination **must**{.red} take place in the designated channel as directed by the Recruiter



### 7B.1.3

It is the responsibility of all Recruiter(s), Trainer(s), and Tester(s) to maintain familiarity with this section and follow all procedures accordingly. All instructions provided by the Recruiter(s) **must**{.red} be followed in order to ensure a test is carried out in a fair manner. Any behavior not falling in line with the expectations of being a participant of the Testing Team are grounds for review and appropriate disciplinary measures as deemed by the IFATC Manager and/or the IFATC Moderator(s).



### 7B.1.4

The following table outlines the minimum notice period that **must**{.red} be given to a Candidate/Controller before their Initial or Radar Practical Test (including the test location):



| Test Type | Minimum Notice Period |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| Initial   | No minimum            |
| Radar     | 24 hours*             |

**The notice period may be reduced if the Recruiter and Candidate/Controller find a mutually acceptable time*