---
id: 7b.2-local-testing
title: 7B.2 Local Testing
meta: This page outlines the different scenarios used for Local Testing.
order: 2
hidden: true
annex: testers
---

# 7B.2 Local Testing 



### 7B.2.1

For Local testing there are three scenarios used, these are outlined below:



**Scenario #1:** Standard Test

**Locations:** KSSC/KVAD/EDDL

**Description:** Majority of Testers spawn at test airport and wait for the test to begin before taxiing to create ground conflict and complexity. 1 Tester will depart a nearby airport to make a transition request. 1 Tester may depart from a nearby airport to call inbound for pattern work.

**Purpose:** Scenario #1 is intended to evaluate a candidate’s ability to manage pattern traffic, recognize a loss of separation, and efficiently use two runways to minimize delays.



**Scenario #2:** Inbounds

**Locations:** KADW/LFBO/KBOI

**Description:** Majority of Testers will spawn at nearby airports and will call inbound totower for pattern work. 1-2 Testers should spawn at the test airport and remain in the traffic pattern prior to the inbound aircraft’s arrival. Testers may do full stop and taxi back to create a workload on both tower & ground simultaneously.

**Purpose:** Scenario #2 is intended to evaluate the candidate’s ability to integrate arrivals, departures, and closed pattern traffic without undue delay. Varying aircraft characteristics and directions of arrival will require the candidate to strategically manage the flow of traffic.



**Scenario #3:** Intersections

**Locations:** KSAV/KABE/EDDH

**Description:** Intersection tests should be a mix of inbound for full stop, departing into the pattern,  and inbound for the pattern. For aircraft inbound to a full stop, please do one full stop, taxi back (taxi back to the active and depart again) so that the tested controller has a chance to work a full stop arrival into the gap, taxi you during the test, and again has to depart you in a gap on the intersection. 

**Purpose:** Scenario #3 is intended to test a candidate’s proficiency with intersecting runways, knowing both the prescribed separation and having the ability to recognize conflict.