---
id: 1b.1-guidelines
title: 1B.1 Guidelines
meta: Air Traffic Controller guidelines on issuing violations
order: 1
hidden: true
---

# 1B.1  Guidelines

 

Tip

: Consistency **must**{.red} be maintained and therefore Controllers cannot be afraid to issue a Violation. Tolerance however, is equally as important – Controllers **should**{.red} try to put themselves in the pilot’s position to determine if it was malicious or a genuine mistake

 

### 1B.1.1    

The Expert Server is here to provide pilots with a realistic environment in which to fly, and as such; the Controllers are expected to strictly enforce the rules of this server so that serious users can enjoy the experience.

 

### 1B.1.2    

To facilitate Controllers in this role they are provided with access to ‘reporting a user’, which will issue the pilot a ‘Violation’. Violations are split into three levels:

 

| **Violation**    | **Consequence**                                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Level  1         | These are automatically generated if a pilot violates any one of the set conditions  *(see 1B.1.2.1 below)*. If a pilot receives 3 or more in one flight, they will be automatically removed from the server and will have to start a new flight to return |
| Level  2 (Amber) | The pilot is disconnected from the server but can continue the flight offline.  The pilot may return to the Expert Server *immediately by starting a new flight |
| Level  3 (Red)   | The pilot is disconnected from the server but can continue the flight offline.  The pilot will not be able to return to the Expert Server after the flight has been ended, with access being restricted for 7 days following this |

 

*Violations are kept on a pilot’s record and therefore, if a pilot continues to receive Violations (Level 2 and Level 3 only), Expert Server access will be restricted for longer. Currently no more than **5** Level 2 and/or Level 3 Violations can be received within a 365 day rolling period for access to the server.



Jason Graphic (Ref: Image 1B.1.2.1)



### 1B.1.3    

Level 2 and 3 Violations **should not**{.red} be used for actions that are already punishable by Level 1 Violations.



### 1B.1.4    

Users do not require prior warning to be issued a Violation, and this **should**{.red} be used in scenarios where a lack of regard for others or procedures is present. However, Controllers **should**{.red} exercise patience (traffic permitting) for simple mistakes when an opportunity for the user to correct exists - Controllers have an array of specific commands at their disposal to help with this as well as generic commands such as ‘please follow instructions’. Controllers **must**{.red} exercise their best judgment on a case by case basis and if unsure, seek further guidance from a Supervisor or above.



### 1B.1.5    

Following a Violation complaint, the Controller replay is the primary method to provide evidence for incident resolution *(see 1B.2 below)*.

 

### 1B.1.6    

Reasons to issue a Violation can include but are not limited to:

 

 -    Not following procedures broadcast on ATIS

 -    Pushback/taxiing without clearance

 -    Crashing/taxiing into other aircraft

 -    Taking-off/landing from a taxiway or grass

 -    Entering the runway without clearance

 -    Taking-off/landing without clearance

 -    Not following the issued sequence

 -    Not following the cleared altitude/heading/speed

 -    Pilots who do not respond to an instruction after 2-3 attempts*

 -    Pilots sending duplicate messages or unnecessary requests 

 -    Spamming a frequency

 -    Repeated disruption

 -    Insulting call-signs/usernames

 -    Call-signs/usernames with profanity or discriminating/racist terms

 

*Aircraft descending via VNAV may be reported after a warning if they are unresponsive **AND**{.red} conflict with others.

 

### 1B.1.7    

Discretion **should**{.red} be used when dealing with call-signs/usernames that could be related to aviation accidents (or other topics of a sensitive nature). It is unknown whether the intended use is to offend or pay respects.



### 1B.1.8    

All Violations are tracked and recorded. Controllers that are found to abuse the system will be given warning, suspension or removal from IFATC *(see 1A.4 above)*. If a Controller is unsure if issuing a Violation is necessary, they **should**{.red} ask from a Supervisor of above for guidance.



### 1B.1.9   

For some infractions that do not warrant a Violation, the use of ‘please check the forum for assistance using ATC instructions’ can be a useful tool but it **should**{.red} only be used sparingly and with good judgment. Do not attempt to fly the aircraft for pilots by bombarding them with countless commands – mistakes happen, both by pilots and Controllers. This command is specifically for scenarios where there is clear confusion between the command sent, and the subsequent pilot response and its sole purpose is to direct the pilot to the IFC Forum where they can ask questions, check tutorials, or contact the Controller directly to learn from the experience.

 