---
id: 1b.1-overview
title: 1B.1 Overview
meta: Air Traffic Controller guidelines on issuing violations within Infinite Flight.
order: 1
hidden: true
---

# 1B.1  Overview

 

Tip

: Consistency **must**{.red} be maintained and therefore Controllers cannot be afraid to issue a Violation. Tolerance however, is equally as important – Controllers **should**{.red} try to put themselves in the pilot’s position to determine if it was malicious or a genuine mistake

 

### 1B.1.1    

The Expert Server is here to provide pilots with a realistic environment in which to fly, and as such; Controllers are expected to strictly enforce the rules of this server so that serious users can enjoy the experience.

 

### 1B.1.2    

To facilitate Controllers in this role they are provided with access to "reporting a user", which will issue the pilot a "Violation" (based on the reason, this will automatically be classified as either Level 2 or 3). Violations are split into three levels:

 

| Violation        | Consequence                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Level  1         | These are automatically generated if a pilot violates any one of the set conditions  *(see Level 1 Violation Table below)*. If a pilot receives 3 or more in one flight, they will be automatically removed from the server and will have to start a new flight to return |
| Level  2 (Amber) | The pilot is disconnected from the server but can continue the flight offline.  The pilot may return to the Expert Server immediately* by starting a new flight |
| Level  3 (Red)   | The pilot is disconnected from the server but can continue the flight offline.  The pilot will not be able to return to the Expert Server after the flight has been ended, with access being restricted for 7 days following this |

 

**Violations are kept on a pilot’s record and therefore, if a pilot continues to receive Violations (Level 2 and Level 3 only), Expert Server access will be restricted for longer. Currently, no more than 5 Level 2 and/or Level 3 Violations can be received within a 365 day rolling period for access to the server*



+++ Level 1 Violation Table


| Rule                       | Conditions for Violation                                     |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Ground Overspeed           | Above 35kts GS (ground speed) on ground, excluding runways   |
| Flight Overspeed           | Above 250kts IAS (indicated airspeed) below 10,000ft / exceeding max speed warning (VMO/MMO) - does not apply to military aircraft |
| Aerobatics within Airspace | Aerobatics below 5,000ft and within 5 nautical miles of an airport |
| Runway Idle                | Sit idle on a runway longer than 60 seconds without ATC clearance |

+++



> Level 2 and 3 Violations **should not**{.red} be used for actions that are already punishable by Level 1 Violations.



### 1B.1.3

Users do not require prior warning to be issued a Violation, and this **should**{.red} be used in scenarios where a lack of regard for others or procedures is present. However, Controllers **should**{.red} exercise patience (traffic permitting) for simple mistakes when an opportunity for the user to correct exists - Controllers have an array of specific commands at their disposal to help with this as well as generic commands such as "please follow instructions". Controllers **must**{.red} exercise their best judgment on a case by case basis and if unsure, seek further guidance from a Supervisor or above.



### 1B.1.4

Following a Violation Appeal, the pilot's replay is the primary method to provide evidence for incident resolution however the Controller's replay may also be requested by the Appeals team *(see [1B.3](/guide/atc-manual/1b.-violations/1b.3-incident-resolution-procedure) below)*.



Tip

: If a Controller issues a Violation in error, they can "raise" a ticket in the *#help request* Discord channel with the Appeals Team to get this rectified *(see [1A.2.4](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.2-discord-rules#1a.2.4) above)*



### 1B.1.5

Discretion **should**{.red} be used when dealing with call-signs/usernames that could be related to aviation accidents (or other topics of a sensitive nature). It is unknown whether the intended use is to offend or pay respects.



### 1B.1.6

All Violations are tracked and recorded. Controllers that are found to abuse the system will be given warning, suspension or removal from IFATC *(see [1A.8](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.8-disciplinary-and-suspension-procedure) above)*. If a Controller is unsure if issuing a Violation is necessary, they **should**{.red} ask a Supervisor or above for guidance.



### 1B.1.7

For some infractions that do not warrant a Violation, the use of "please check the User Guide for assistance using ATC instructions" can be a useful tool but it **should**{.red} only be used sparingly and with good judgment. Do not attempt to fly the aircraft for pilots by bombarding them with countless commands – mistakes happen, both by pilots and Controllers. This command is specifically for scenarios where there is clear confusion between the command sent, and the subsequent pilot response and its sole purpose is to direct the pilot to the IFC Forum where they can ask questions, check tutorials, or contact the Controller directly to learn from the experience.

 