---
id: 2.1-runway-selection-and-pushback
title: 2.1 Runway Selection and Pushback
meta: How to choose runways in use and issue pushback instructions to aircraft
order: 1
---

# 2.1  Runway Selection and Pushback

 

Tip

: **ALL** available runways **should**{.red} be used at **ALL** times *(see [4.1.4](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.1-overview#4.1.4) below)*

 

## Runway Selection 



### 2.1.1    

Controllers **must**{.red} familiarize themselves with the taxiway layout before opening, this includes knowing what the largest aircraft type that can be accepted is, based on if it can physically maneuver without restricting traffic flow *(see [4.2.1](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.2-remarks-and-notams#4.2.1) below)*. Once open, liaison **must**{.red} be made with the other Controllers to determine runway selection for departures and arrivals, as well as scanning where traffic currently is within the layout of the airport.



### 2.1.2    

The color of the runways (i.e. green, amber and red) are for guidance only. You **must**{.red} look at the METAR (Meteorological Aerodrome Report) to determine the Headwind or Tailwind Component (H/TWC) for a particular runway. You **should**{.red} also look at the TAF (Terminal Aerodrome Forecast), which will provide a trend of the expected wind over the coming hours. Controllers **should**{.red} avoid switching runways as much as possible as this creates delays. Most aircraft can land with a TWC of up to 10kts. Therefore, runway changes **should**{.red} be avoided until this point if at all possible.



## Pushback



@[vimeo](1050790791)



### 2.1.3    

Controllers **must**{.red} check that the area is clear before issuing pushback clearance. If it is not clear, the use of "hold position" or a give way command **must**{.red} be used prior to issuing the pushback clearance (a reminder can be set to avoid forgetting about the aircraft or if it is very busy).

> By looking at the strips; the oldest "hold position" command would have been sent to the bottom of the tab providing useful reference as to who requested pushback first

### 2.1.4   

Under most circumstances, the Controller **should**{.red} approve an aircraft’s initial request to pushback or taxi, regardless of aircraft type or parking, due to the availability of pushback equipment for all aircraft and the wide variety of parking spot configurations.

> Controllers **should**{.red} be familiar with their airport’s parking configuration while operating. i.e. can aircraft pull straight through their remote stand? Do aircraft require a pushback to safely exit the spot?

### 2.1.5

Auto pushback and/or tail position assignment **should**{.red} be used to the max extent possible at eligible airports to dictate the pushback path and beginning taxi position of aircraft under control. To pause an auto pushback in progress, advise the aircraft to “hold position”. A subsequent “pushback approved” is approval to resume the previously assigned auto pushback. When a conflict is not present Controllers **should**{.red} elect to approve a pushback without tail or auto push guidance.

>  To amend a pushback path Controllers should advise the aircraft to "hold position" and reissue a new pushback clearance with the amended path.

### 2.1.6    

The use of "expect runway xx" **may**{.red} be used if the Controller deems it necessary; however, it is not required for each pushback clearance.

