---
id: 2.2-taxi-and-use-of-give-way
title: 2.2 Taxi and Use of Give Way
meta: How to issue taxi clearance and give way commands to aircraft
order: 2
---

# 2.2  Taxi and Use of Give Way

 

Tip

: Send aircraft to the closest runway in use if possible (traffic and aircraft performance permitting)

 

### 2.2.1    

Active ground monitoring is required with use of the "give way" command when needed. In addition, Controllers **must**{.red} monitor for runway incursions as well as prioritize issuing "give way" commands to aircraft that could conflict with traffic exiting the runway.  



Tip

: If a conflict exists, resolve this by issuing the "give way" command first, followed by the taxi instructions. This ensures that the pilot is aware of the potential conflict **BEFORE** they start to taxi



### 2.2.2    

"Taxi to RWYXX, contact tower when ready" and "Taxi to Parking" are the default commands that **must**{.red} be used by Controllers for the purposes of taxiing departing/arriving aircraft. Where available, Controllers **should**{.red} use the "drag and taxi" feature to issue specific taxi routes. Controllers **must**{.red} issue a crossing clearance to aircraft for each runway their route crosses (and an aircraft **must**{.red} have crossed a previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued).



Tip

: At large and complex airports (e.g. KORD, EHAM, KJFK etc) it is often most effective to issue partial taxi instructions to intermediate holding points rather than a route from the parking spot all the way to the runway (or vice versa)



### 2.2.3

Controllers **should**{.red} not assign specific gates for arriving aircraft requesting taxi to park. Parking spot determination **should**{.red} be made by the pilot and accommodated by ATC, when possible. Aircraft requesting a clearance to taxi to parking without a specific spot may be given specific routing via progressive instructions or drag & taxi routing to deconflict with other traffic, however they **should**{.red} be allowed to proceed to their desired spot once all conflicts are resolved.



### 2.2.4

Controllers also have Progressive Taxi Instructions to assist with ground movement including one way systems, potential conflicts and intersection departures. Controllers **should**{.red} take note that **VERY CLOSE MONITORING** is required when using this tool and therefore **should**{.red} only use it when absolutely necessary. Before it’s used, Controllers **should**{.red} send "Expect Progressive Taxi Instructions" to the aircraft in question (although this may not always be possible), once this is done the following commands are available:

 

 -    Cross runway XX

 -    Turn left/right next taxiway

 -    Continue straight ahead

 -    Make 180 (Controllers **must**{.red} ensure that the aircraft has the space required to make a 180 degree turn on the taxiway)

 -    Follow aircraft ahead

 -    Already cleared to cross

 

Once the Progressive Taxi Instructions are no longer required, the Controller **must**{.red} send "Continue Taxi at your discretion".

 

### 2.2.5

If an aircraft requests frequency change after being issued "taxi to RWYXX, contact tower when ready" (commonly encountered when the aircraft is holding short of the runway), a "frequency change already sent" message **should**{.red} be used. Sometimes the pilots do not realise that the previous command gave them permission to change frequency.

 