---
id: 4.1-overview
title: 4.1 Overview
meta: Overview of rules to be followed when operating a ATIS facility on Infinite Flight.
order: 1
---

# 4.1 Overview



### 4.1.1    

The Automatic Terminal Information Service (known as ATIS), enables the Controllers to broadcast the current weather as well as REMARKS and NOTAMS to keep pilots informed.



### 4.1.2

A letter of the Phonetic Alphabet is used to identify an ATIS transmission. This letter is then relayed between pilots and Controllers to ensure everyone is operating under the same airfield information. At any time, if the current ATIS does not reflect the current situation (including changes in weather or SIDs/STARs in use), Controllers **must**{.red} change the ATIS without delay and ensure real time coordination with the other Controllers involved. As a **MINIMUM**, the ATIS must be updated at least once an hour. In addition, a broadcast **must**{.red} be made on Ground/Tower/Radar to ensure pilots check the new ATIS.



### 4.1.3

The letters used when updating the ATIS **must**{.red} be in alphabetical order and typically starts at Alpha unless the Controller has just taken over from another Controller.



### 4.1.4

**ALL** available runways **should**{.red} be used – one runway for departures and another runway for arrivals **should**{.red} be avoided if possible. Controllers may however, be exposed to an airport where terrain, airport layout or weather prevents **ALL** runways from being used; in this case it is acceptable to not use **ALL** runways (if there are any doubts as to what strategy **should**{.red} be used, Controllers **should**{.red} raise this with a Supervisor or above for guidance).



### 4.1.5

The facility to open multiple Ground/Tower/Radar frequencies exist at some airports. This can be useful when managing busy traffic. If this is to be used Controllers **must**{.red} ensure that the ATIS is updated to reflect this (i.e. which frequency to contact, from which direction), prior coordination is made with the other Controllers; and during the controlling session, the IFATC Discord Channels are used to provide a good service.