---
id: 5.3-pattern-work-transitions-flight-of-xx
title: 5.3 Pattern Work / Transitions / Flight of XX
meta: Pattern Work, Transitions and Flight of XX rules when operating a tower facility within Infinite Flight.
order: 3
---

# 5.3  Pattern Work / Transitions / Flight of XX

 

## Pattern Work



Tip

: Pattern work can only be approved in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) – for IF only purposes, this is a MINIMUM of 3 statute miles (approx. 5000 meters) visibility. If this condition is not met, Controllers **must not** allow pattern work

 

### 5.3.1    

The pattern altitude is 1000ft AAL (above aerodrome level) for props and 1500ft AAL for jets. Controllers are encouraged to fly at the airport they intend on controlling at, before opening. This allows the Controller to assess suitability for pattern work. Weather and traffic may be sensible, however if a standard pattern cannot be reasonably flown, for example due to terrain such as at KASE or LOWI, then pattern work **must** be denied when controlling.



## Transitions



### 5.3.2    

Aircraft **must** request a transition if passing through the airspace of the tower controller unless the aircraft is with the radar facility of that airport. For Infinite Flight, Tower airspace is defined as the largest ring marked on the map around the airport and up to 5000ft AAL (therefore if the elevation of the airport is 1000ft, the tower’s airspace would be 1000ft – 6000ft.



### 5.3.3    

A transition **must** only be approved within tower’s airspace (so in the example above, no higher than 6000ft). Separation **should** be applied if the Tower Controller has aircraft in the pattern.



### 5.3.4    

Using the above example, if the Tower Controller has 2 jet aircraft in the pattern, with an airport elevation of 1000ft, they would be expected to fly the pattern at 2500ft, therefore a transition for another aircraft **must** be given that still allows it to stay within the tower’s airspace (up to 6000ft) but also gives separation to those that are in the pattern. 3000ft would be the minimum altitude that could be used to provide 500ft separation between VFR aircraft, however 1000ft or more is recommended to satisfy IFR separation rules *(see 8.2 below)*.



## Flight of XX



### 5.3.5    

When controlling aircraft using the ‘Flight of XX’ callsign, you **must** only send commands to the lead aircraft and treat the flight of xx as one aircraft. Separation is the pilot’s responsibility and it is likely that they will be within ½ mile separation of each other during the approach and landing.

 