---
id: 7a.1-overview
title: 7A.1 Overview
meta: Overview of procedures to be followed by Trainers.
order: 1
auth: trainers
---

# 7A.1 Overview



### 7A.1.1

The Training Team (Trainers) is here to educate and train individuals within their specific area of study as Air Traffic Controllers, ensuring test readiness and a high standard of controlling.



### 7A.1.2

Trainers **must**{.red} ensure that all requirements are met before taking on a Trainee. In an instance where there is ambiguity, this manual overrides any conflicting information. Trainers unsure as to the circumstances of a Candidate/Controller (or possible exemptions to the prescribed guidelines) **must**{.red} consult a Recruiter for a final verdict. 



### 7A.1.3	

Members of the Training Team are selected on a merit-only basis with regards to past service and current skill levels as a Controller. Merit is based on, but not limited to:



- community service

- good behavior

- comprehensive understanding of this manual

- and other considerations as appropriate at the time of choosing

  

Any Controller considered **must**{.red} hold the rank of Officer as a minimum in order to qualify (this is to guarantee that all components of the training program can be taught).



### 7A.1.4

Trainers **must**{.red} comply with the following when in the process of being added as members of the team:

- Meet with the Training Team Administrator over a call in order to outline expectations and bring up questions should the need arise
- Be subject to a 30 day probationary period during which time the trainer **must not**{.red} take more than 3 trainees at any given time (this is to allow Trainers to decide whether or not the role is for them and to avoid staffing issues if there is a lapse in coverage)



### 7A.1.5

As representatives of the Training Team, Trainers **must**{.red} conduct themselves in a professional manner, reflective of the team and service they provide on a daily basis. Trainers may be demoted or removed from the Training Team if expectations are not met. 



### 7A.1.6

Complaints pertaining to the behavior of Trainers **should**{.red} be forwarded to the Training Team Administrator, and/or then to the IFATC Manager based on the circumstances of the given situation(s). 



### 7A.1.7

When new Trainers are selected, they will be added to the following channels within Discord:



| Channel               | Purpose                                                      |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| #testers              | Recruiters will post in this channel when they require pilots to join in for a Practical Test (Initial or Radar), including which testers channel the session will take place in. Testers **must not**{.red} "react" to the request if all available slots are already filled |
| #testers[1-3]         | All test session coordination to take place in the designated channel as directed by the Recruiter (no more than one test per channel **must**{.red} be used at any one time) |
| #trainers             | Main channel for coordination purposes within the Training Team |
| #trainer-trainee[1-3] | Voice Channels specifically available for coordination between the Trainer and Trainee **ONLY** *(for further guidance see [7A.1.8](/guide/atc-manual/7a.-trainers/7a.1-overview#7a.1.8) below)* |
| #training-time        | Trainers will post in this channel when they require pilots to join in for training sessions, including which training-time channel the session will take place in |
| #training-time[1-3]   | All training session coordination to take place in the designated channel as directed by the Trainer (no more than one training session per channel **must**{.red} be used at any one time) |



### 7A.1.8

The use of VCs for coordination between Trainers and their Trainees **must**{.red} be conducted in accordance with Section 1A - Administration *(see [1A.1.4](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.1-discord-communication#1a.1.4) and [1A.2.2](/guide/atc-manual/1a.-administration/1a.2-discord-rules#1a.2.2) above)*. It’s intended use is for one-on-one training through the session but may also be used to brief/debrief before or after a session, or for general Trainer/Trainee meetings. The VCs may also be used for Trainer/Trainee meetings or to brief upcoming sessions. It is entirely voluntary and at the discretion of the Trainer and Trainee. 