---
id: 7a.2-training-structure
title: 7A.2 Training Structure
meta: Training structure to be followed by Trainers.
order: 2
auth: trainers
---

# 7A.2 Training Structure 



### 7A.2.1

Recruits **must**{.red} ensure that all requirements are met before requesting training. These requirements and the full process are outlined in the following locations:

 

| Trainee Type* | Location                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Tower         | [ATC Training Post](https://community.infiniteflight.com/t/atc-training/416531) on the IFC Forum |
| Radar         | See [7.4](/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.4-radar-written-and-practical-tests#7.4-radar-theory-and-practical-tests) above |

**Definitions of the different trainee types can be found here (see [7.1.3](/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.1-overview#7.1.3) above)*



### 7A.2.2

Trainees **should**{.red} be claimed within a 7 day timeframe by accepting the request.



## Summary

### 7A.2.3

Below if a summary that outlines the complete training process for a Tower or Radar Recruit:



+++ Tower/Radar Recruit

Step 1

: Go to the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.infiniteflight.com) and login using your IFC credentials (if required, login is normally automatic)



Step 2

: From the navigation bar on the left of the screen, select "ATC Recruits" under "IFATC"



Step 3

: Select "Training Waitlist" from the top navigation bar 



Step 4

: All Recruits awaiting training will be listed, Recruits can be accepted as a Trainee by tapping the yellow button with a person/plus symbol that is inline with that Recruit (Trainers **should**{.red} consider the timezone of the Recruit before accepting to ensure it is workable)



Step 5

: To review the "ATC Recruitment" profile of a Trainee, return to the "ATC Recruits" page and then select "In Training" from the top navigation bar, and then tick the "Show Only My Recruits" tickbox to filter the list



Step 6

: Tap the purple button with an arrow symbol that is inline with the Trainee that you would like to select



Step 7

: This action will open up their "ATC Recruitment" profile



>For Radar Trainee's, Trainers **must**{.red} inform the assigned Recruiter when the Trainee is ready for the Radar Practical Test

+++



## Training Sessions

### 7A.2.4

Trainers **must**{.red} utilize the "Add Session" function (and ensure "Training Session" is selected under "Type") within the Recruit's ATC Recruitment profile before a scheduled session. This will send an automatic notification to the *#training-time* Discord channel for pilots. Once the specific channel to be used for that session is established, all subsequent coordination **should**{.red} only be in that channel.



> The notification is sent 30 minutes before the start time unless the session was added with less than 30 minutes notice, in which case the notification will be immediate



### 7A.2.5

The maximum amount of training sessions allowed before a review of trainee performance are listed below:

| Trainee Type | Maximum Training Sessions |
| ------------ | ------------------------- |
| Tower        | 15                        |
| Radar        | 20                        |

Upon reaching the session limit, the training team will review overall progress to determine preparedness for testing, need for termination, or will allocate more sessions to reach skill level required for certification.



### 7A.2.6

Trainers reserve the right to terminate training at any point *(see* *[7.1.4](https://infiniteflight.com/guide/atc-manual/7.-recruitment-and-training/7.1-overview#7.1.4)* *above)*, but **should**{.red} speak to the Trainee’s Recruiter **BEFORE** termination as this may effect the Trainee’s eligibility for joining IFATC (or future promotions if already within IFATC). A two strike policy is normally observed allowing the Trainee the benefit of the doubt when mistakes are made however appeals may be reviewed by the Training Team Administrator and/or the IFATC Manager on a case-by-case basis.



Reasons for termination can include (but are not limited to):



- failure to respond or communicate with their assigned Trainer(s)
- failure to attend scheduled training sessions
- not receptive to feedback and/or a bad attitude



## Recommended Training Airports

### 7A.2.7

For Tower Training, Trainers **should**{.red} conduct training at airports with parallel and/or intersecting runways depending on the circumstances of their Trainees.



### 7A.2.8

The following list outlines recommended airports for Radar Training (Trainers are encouraged to rotate through each site on a consistent basis). Trainers **must not**{.red} train (or allow training to take place) at test sites in order to avoid any unfair advantages *(see [7B.2.1](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.2-tower-testing#7b.2.1) and [7B.3.2](/guide/atc-manual/7b.-testers/7b.3-radar-testing#7b.3.2) below)*:



+++ Beginner Airports

**Location: KSBP (elevation 212ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 07   | GPS           |
| 11   | ILS           |
| 25   | GPS           |
| 29   | GPS           |

> Minimal terrain in the vicinity of the airport (high terrain to the East but no factor). Single ILS Runway configuration



**Location: LPPT (elevation 374ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 03   | ILS           |
| 17   | GPS           |
| 21   | ILS           |
| 35   | GPS           |

> Minimal terrain in the vicinity of the airport. Provides good training for single runway and standard ILS operations as well as an introduction into intersecting runway operations



**Location: NZAA (elevation 23ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 05R  | ILS           |
| 23L  | ILS           |

> Minimal terrain in the vicinity of the airport. Single ILS runway configuration, use of runway 23L recommended. Provides good training for an introduction into STAR management

+++



+++ Intermediate Airports

**Location: PHOG (elevation 53ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 02   | ILS           |
| 05   | GPS           |
| 20   | GPS           |
| 23   | GPS           |

> High Terrain to the East and West of the airport. For RWY05 visual approaches it is recommended to bring traffic onto right downwind for RWY02 and feed in between RWY02 arrivals, or bring them directly onto a left downwind for RWY05. Trainee awareness on when to turn aircraft onto base/final to maintain terrain separation essential



**Location: SKRG (elevation 7027ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 01   | ILS           |
| 19   | GPS           |

Recommended STARs: KORB1A (North), OPME1A (Northwest), and MATR3A (South)

> High terrain on left/right downwind for RWY01. Provides good training for introduction to terrain awareness, high elevation airports and STAR management



+++ Advanced Airports

**Location: LFMN (elevation 12ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type               |
| ---- | --------------------------- |
| 04L  | ILS                         |
| 04R  | ILS                         |
| 22L  | GPS (recommend Visual only) |
| 22R  | GPS (recommend Visual only) |

Recommended STARs:  PERU6R (North-west), ABDI6R (West), and ABLA6R (West)

> High terrain to the North, North-east and West of the airport. Staggered approach technique recommended due to close proximity of parallel runways. Southwesterly runway configuration can be used for advanced visual approach training



**Location: MMMX (elevation 7316ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 05L  | GPS           |
| 05R  | ILS           |
| 23L  | ILS           |
| 23R  | GPS           |

Recommended STARs: AVSA1C (North), and TIKE1C (North-west)

> High terrain surrounds the airport. Short 6 mile final approach for RWY05R recommended, use left downwind and turn aircraft at San Mateo (SMO) VOR. Provides good training for aircraft speed management and high altitude airports



**Location: OAKB (elevation 5876ft)**

| RWY  | Approach Type |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 11   | GPS           |
| 29   | ILS           |

> High terrain on left/right downwind as well as multiple high-peaks throughout the region. Terrain awareness essential and provides good training opportunity for pre-session planning

+++



+++ Other Airports

- CYVR
- CYXE
- KAUS
- KEGE
- KFWA
- KGJT
- KLSV
- KONT
- KPVU
- KSNA
- LEMG
- MGTK
- PHTO
- SACO
- SBGL
- SCEL

+++



## Training Complete Checklist

### 7A.2.9

Before approving any Trainee to conduct a Practical Test, Trainers **must**{.red} consult the following checklists to ensure that all necessary materials are covered before the Trainee proceeds forward:



> If you leave this page, items that you have "checked off" will not be remembered. Do not navigate away or refresh this page until you have completed the checklist 



+++ Tower Checklist

- [ ] Weather / ATIS
- [ ] Pushback / Taxi Commands
- [ ] Ground Monitoring and Situational Awareness
- [ ] Gate Holds
- [ ] Runway Crossings
- [ ] Broadcast Commands
- [ ] Runway Assignments
- [ ] Usage of "Expect Runway"
- [ ] Take-Off / Landing / Option Clearances
- [ ] Separation Requirements / Go-Arounds
- [ ] Pattern / Transition Commands
- [ ] Sequencing
- [ ] Runway Exit Commands

+++



+++ Radar Checklist

- [ ] Radar User Interface
- [ ] ILS / GPS / Visual Approach
- [ ] Separation Requirements
- [ ] Flight Following [VFR]
- [ ] Check In [IFR]
- [ ] Radar Vectors / Patterns
- [ ] SIDs / STARs
- [ ] Center
- [ ] Speed Commands
- [ ] Airspace
- [ ] GA traffic management

+++

