---
id: 3.1-separation
title: 3.1 Separation
meta: Separation rules when operating a tower facility within Infinite Flight.
order: 1
---

# 3.1  Separation



### 3.1.1    

Departure / Departure – the first aircraft **must**{red} be airborne before the second aircraft commences the take-off roll (in addition, aircraft type **should**{red} be taken into account, e.g. if the first aircraft to depart is a Cessna 172, and the second aircraft is a Boeing 737; it is likely the 737 will catch up with the C172 very quickly if minimum separation rules are applied, therefore time **should**{red} be added before the second departure to allow for this.



### 3.1.2    

Arrival / Arrival – the first aircraft **must**{red} have vacated the runway before the second aircraft crosses the threshold.



### 3.1.3    

Departure / Arrival – the first aircraft **must**{red} be airborne before the second aircraft crosses the threshold.



### 3.1.4    

Anticipation is encouraged and **should**{red} be used when appropriate, for example if a Boeing 737 has already been cleared for take-off and is rolling, rather than issuing a LUAW clearance to the next aircraft, ask yourself if issuing a take-off clearance is appropriate based on the assumption that the first aircraft will be airborne by the time the second aircraft is ready to roll *(see 3.2.2 below).*



### 3.1.5    

If at any time, separation is likely to be lost, the Controller **must**{red} be proactive. This is particularly important with a Departue / Arrival sequence, the arrival can be sent around but consideration **should**{red} also be made as to whether or not the departure should have its ‘take-off clearance cancelled’ to prevent the departing traffic climbing into the traffic that is initiating the missed approach *(see 3.4.4 below).*



### 3.1.6    

Most commercial aircraft approach speeds are between 120-150kts. If a Controller needs more separation the use of ‘maintain slowest practical speed’ can be utilised, however this **should**{red} not be used within 4 miles to touchdown as it is likely the aircraft is already at its final approach speed. In addition, the Controller **should**{red} also look at the Groundspeed of the aircraft in question before sending this command as the aircraft could already be at their final approach speed. Regardless of aircraft position, if an aircraft groundspeed is excessive then this command can be useful however it is important to take note of two points. Firstly, if the aircraft is close in, it may already be too late and a go-around might be the only option left; and secondly, try to avoid slowing aircraft down too far out if you have a Radar Controller present as they may have a line of aircraft on approach and it could have a detrimental effect to their spacing. If you need more space and a Radar Controller is present, tell them *(see 3.5.1 below).*

 