---
id: 3.2-departures
title: 3.2 Departures
meta: Hold Short, Line Up and Wait (LUAW), Back-Taxi, Intersection Departures and Take-Off rules when operating a tower facility within Infinite Flight.
order: 2
---

# 3.2  Departures

 

## Hold Short

### 3.2.1    

If an aircraft requests take-off and you cannot clear them or issue a LUAW command, then the "hold short" command **must**{.red} be used, other commands such as "standby" are not appropriate.



## Departure Sequence 

### 3.2.2

Controllers can utilize the Departure Sequence menu if they wish to provide sequence information to aircraft that are ready for departure (particularly useful when aircraft are confused who is next due to factors such as taxiway layout). The use of "Hold Short" **must**{.red} always be used if the aircraft is number 1 for departure, or if the Controller is unsure on the sequence number - however in any other circumstance the Controller can elect to inform the aircraft of their departure sequence if they want to. In addition, aircraft do not need to be first in line to announce "ready for departure" (and may also utilize the "in sequence" message) - this is useful for planning purposes and especially when Intersection Departures are in use *(see [3.2.5](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.2-departure#3.2.5) below)*.



## Line Up & Wait (LUAW)

### 3.2.3    

LUAW is a useful tool to have an aircraft on the runway ready for an imminent departure once separation rules are satisfied *(see [3.1](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.1-separation#3.1-separation) above)*. But anticipated separation **should**{.red} also be taken into account, especially with departure / departure sequences. If the first aircraft is already rolling, ask yourself how long it will take the second aircraft to line up on the runway and commence their take-off roll. If the assumption can be made that the first aircraft will be airborne, then you can save yourself the extra command and just clear the next aircraft for take-off, however consideration **should**{.red} be given to the expected climb speed of the preceding aircraft *(see [3.1.1](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.1-separation#3.1.1) above)*. Controllers can issue the LUAW command to more than one aircraft provided it will not compromise the integrity of the first aircraft that is due to depart.



## Back-Taxi

### 3.2.4    

If the only option to access full length of the runway is to back-taxi, Controllers **should**{.red} issue a back-taxi command, thus allowing pilots to decide how much runway they require for departure. It is important to note that back-taxi is pilot discretion, and therefore even with clearance to LUAW or take-off, pilots may elect to back-taxi. Controllers **should**{.red} be proactive by planning for the worst case scenario in terms of separation, and in particular; **should**{.red} expect the aircraft to back-taxi no faster than normal taxiing speeds. 



## Intersection Departures

### 3.2.5    

Intersection departures are a great method in which to optimize the departure sequence, and thus **must**{.red} be utilized unless it blocks the only taxiway for aircraft to access full length **AND**{.red} will affect the departure/arrival flow rate (if both these conditions are not met, they **must**{.red} be allowed). Controllers **should not**{.red} view intersection departures as ‘queue jumping’, but instead use it to their advantage to provide an expeditious service. For example, a gap between two arrivals that looks tight for a commercial aircraft to depart in, might be suitable for a fast jet? The flexibility it offers the Controller is a tool, not a hindrance.



## Take-Off

### 3.2.6    

The use of "Immediate Take-Off" **should**{.red} only be reserved for Departure / Arrival separation where it is highly likely that separation could be lost if the departure does not depart expeditiously. This is normally when aircraft are on final with a range of 2nm or less, however it is also dependent on the final approach speed of the aircraft in question, and the type of aircraft to depart, i.e. 777 vs. 737 *(see [3.2.7](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.2-departure#3.2.7) below)*.



### 3.2.7    

The range displayed in nm on an aircraft tag is with reference to the tower, not the runway threshold that the aircraft is landing on. Controllers are encouraged to work out what the aircraft range is from the threshold so that they are aware when separation is close. A good way is by looking at the altitude of the aircraft, when aircraft fly a standard 3 degree glideslope, you can expect a range of 2nm from the touchdown to coincide with an altitude of approximately 600ft, assuming an airport elevation of 0ft *(see [6.10.4](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.10-instrument-landing-system-(ils)-approach#6.10.4) below).*



### 3.2.8    

When "Straight Out Dept." is being broadcast in the current ATIS *(see [4.1.6](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.1-atis#4.1.6) below)*, the use of "fly runway heading until at or above XXXXft" **should**{.red} be used with every take-off command sent as a final reminder to the departing aircraft; the options available include 1000ft, 3000ft and 5000ft AAL (rounded down to the nearest 500ft). Aircraft climb rates can vary significantly, thus; although aircraft have been instructed to maintain runway heading until a specific altitude, with "Straight Out Dept." selected in the ATIS, aircraft cannot deviate from runway heading until the departing aircraft is clear of any conflict.



### 3.2.9 

SIDs often involve turns away from the airport shortly after departure; due to this, if "Straight Out Dept." is being utilized, Controllers **should**{.red} note that this may prevent pilots from flying the selected SID *(see [4.1.6](/guide/atc-manual/4.-atis/4.1-atis#4.1.6) and [6.4.3](/guide/atc-manual/6.-radar/6.4-departure-check-in#6.4.3) below)*.

 