---
id: 3.4-cleared-for-the-option-exit-runway-go-around
title: 3.4 Cleared for the Option / Exit Runway / Go-Around
meta: Cleared for the Option, Exit Runway and Go-Around rules when operating a tower facility within Infinite Flight.
order: 4
---

# 3.4  Cleared for the Option / Exit Runway / Go-Around

 

## Cleared for the Option



### 3.4.1    

If an aircraft is in the pattern ‘Cleared for the Option’ **must**{.red} be used as it gives the pilot the option of a landing / touch & go / stop & go or low approach.



### 3.4.2    

If the aircraft has already been instructed to make left/right traffic from the initial take-off clearance or the previous landing clearance, then the use of ‘make left/right traffic’ is no longer required to be used as it is assumed the pilot will continue with this pattern unless told otherwise. If the pilot is given a new pattern entry or new runway, when clearing for the option, you **must**{.red} tell the pilot whether to make left/right traffic.



## Exit Runway



### 3.4.3    

The Exit Runway command **should**{.red} be given once the aircraft is at a safe and controlled speed, typically less than 70kts *(see 3.4.4 below for exceptions)*. The expedite command **should**{.red} not be used unnecessarily. Typically aircraft that are within 2nm final or 3nm final if another aircraft is lined up on the runway to depart, would require the use of this.



### 3.4.4

Time critical control instructions (e.g. such as a Go-Around instruction) **must**{.red} always be prioritized. Therefore, if Controllers are unable to provide an Exit Runway command, then as a **MINIMUM**{.red}, a Frequency Change Approved or Contact Ground command **must**{.red} be sent when workload permits. In the absence of an Exit Runway command, aircraft are expected to exit the runway at the first available taxiway once reaching a taxi speed , cross the hold bars and contact ground control.



### 3.4.5

Where Tower Controllers are controlling multiple runways in close proximity, it is encouraged to utilize the Exit Runway and Hold Short/Cross Runway command. The Tower Controller can then manage the crossing traffic (de-conflicting with departures/arrivals), hand over to the Ground Controller once clear, and ultimately reduce Controller workload.



## Go-Around 



### 3.4.6

A ‘go-around’ (G/A) can be pilot or Controller initiated and is the procedure used to cancel the approach and/or landing. Controllers **should**{.red} try to be proactive when they see a conflict that requires the use of a go-around. When issuing a go-around instruction, the option of including left/right traffic **should**{.red} be used as this gives the pilot an indication of the direction you want them to take. No pattern entry is required however, sequencing (as appropriate) and a clearance will be needed. If working with a Radar Controller, you **should**{.red} try to let them know that the aircraft is ‘go-around’ traffic so that they can work them into the plan, the aircraft can then be handed over to the Radar Controller unless they are VFR traffic or a prior arrangement has been made between Controllers.

 