---
id: 3.5-exit-runway-go-around
title: 3.5 Exit Runway / Go-Around
meta: Exit Runway and Go-Around rules when operating a tower facility within Infinite Flight.
order: 5
---

# 3.5  Exit Runway / Go-Around



## Exit Runway



### 3.5.1    

The Exit Runway command **should**{.red} be given once the aircraft is at a safe and controlled speed, typically less than 70kts *(see [3.5.2](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.5-exit-runway-go-around#3.5.2) below for exceptions)*. The expedite command **should**{.red} not be used unnecessarily. Typically aircraft that are within 2nm final or 3nm final if another aircraft is lined up on the runway to depart, would require the use of this.



Tip

: If aircraft are in the pattern and have not announced a full stop, the Controller can assume the aircraft intends on performing a touch & go *(see [3.3.5](/guide/atc-manual/3.-tower/3.3-inbounds#3.3.5) above)*. In this case, delay the exit command until it is clear that the aircraft is intending on a full stop (i.e. either starting to exit the runway or there is no longer sufficient runway left for the aircraft to take-off again)



### 3.5.2

Time critical control instructions (e.g. such as a Go-Around instruction) **must**{.red} always be prioritized. Therefore, in the absence of an Exit Runway command; aircraft are expected to exit the runway at the first available taxiway once reaching a taxi speed, cross the hold bars and contact Ground Control. If the aircraft does not change frequency, Controllers can issue a "Frequency Change Approved" or "Contact Ground" command when workload permits.



### 3.5.3

Where Tower Controllers are controlling multiple runways in close proximity, it is encouraged to utilize the Exit Runway and Hold Short/Cross Runway command. The Tower Controller can then manage the crossing traffic (de-conflicting with departures/arrivals), hand over to the Ground Controller once clear, and ultimately reduce Controller workload.



## Go-Around 



### 3.5.4

A "go-around" (G/A) can be pilot or Controller initiated and is the procedure used to cancel the approach and/or landing. Controllers **should**{.red} try to be proactive when they see a conflict that requires the use of a go-around. When issuing a go-around instruction, the use of "left/right traffic" gives the pilot an indication of the direction you want them to take. No pattern entry is required however, sequencing (as appropriate) and a clearance will be needed. If working with a Radar Controller, you **should**{.red} try to let them know that the aircraft is "go-around" traffic so that they can work them into the plan, the aircraft can then be handed over to the Radar Controller unless they are VFR traffic or a prior arrangement has been made between Controllers.

 