---
id: 4.1-runway-selection-and-pushback
title: 4.1 Runway Selection and Pushback
meta: How to choose runways in use and issue pushback instructions to aircraft
order: 1
---

# 4.1  Runway Selection and Pushback

 

Tip

: ALL available runways **should** be used at ALL times *(see 6.1.1 below)*

 

### 4.1.1    

Controllers **must** familiarise themselves with the taxiway layout before opening (this includes knowing what the largest aircraft that can be accepted at the aerodrome is). Once open, liaison **must** be made with the other Controllers to determine runway selection for departures and arrivals, as well as scanning where traffic currently is within the layout of the airport.



### 4.1.2    

The colours of the runways (i.e. green, amber and red) are for guidance only. You **must** look at the METAR (Meteorological Aerodrome Report) to determine the Headwind or Tailwind Component (H/TWC) for a particular runway. You **should** also look at the TAF (Terminal Aerodrome Forecast), which will provide a trend of the expected wind over the coming hours. Controllers **should** avoid switching runways as much as possible as this creates delays. Most aircraft can land with a TWC of up to 10kts. Therefore, runway changes **should** be avoided until this point if at all possible.



### 4.1.3    

When issuing pushback to an aircraft, you **must** check that the area is clear, if it isn’t, the use of ‘hold position’ **must** be used (a reminder can be set to avoid forgetting about the aircraft or if it is very busy). Take note, by looking at the strips; the oldest ‘hold position’ command would have been sent to the bottom of the tab providing useful reference as to who requested pushback first).



### 4.1.4    

In addition to this, the Controller **should** check that the request is valid i.e. is the aircraft capable of pushback? Is the aircraft parked in a position that requires pushback?



### 4.1.5    

The use of ‘expect runway xx’ **should** only be used if the Controller deems it necessary for the aircraft to face a particular way for pushback to promote efficiency. It **should not** be used for every pushback command sent.
