---
id: 4.2-taxi-and-use-of-give-way
title: 4.2 Taxi and Use of Give Way
meta: How to issue taxi clearance and give way commands to aircraft
order: 2
---

# 4.2  Taxi and Use of Give Way

 

Tip

: Send aircraft to the closest runway in use if possible (traffic and aircraft performance permitting)

 

### 4.2.1    

Active ground monitoring is required with use of the ‘give way’ command when needed. In addition, Controllers **must** monitor for runway incursions.

 

### 4.2.2    

‘Taxi to RWYXX, contact tower when ready’ and ‘Taxi to Parking’ are the default commands that **must** be used by Controllers for the purposes of departing/arriving aircraft. In addition to this, Controllers have Progressive Taxi Instructions to assist with ground movement including one way systems, potential conflicts and intersection departures. Controllers **should** take note that **VERY CLOSE MONITORING** is required when using this tool and therefore **should** only use it when absolutely necessary. Before it’s used, Controllers **should** send ‘Expect Progressive Taxi Instructions’ to the aircraft in question (although this may not always be possible), once this is done the following commands are available:

 

\-    Cross runway XX

\-    Turn left/right next taxiway

\-    Continue straight ahead

\-    Make 180 (Controllers **must** ensure that the aircraft has the space required to make a 180 degree turn on the taxiway)

\-    Follow aircraft ahead

\-    Already cleared to cross

 

Once the Progressive Taxi Instructions are no longer required, the Controller **must** send ‘Continue Taxi at your discretion’.

 

### 4.2.3    

If an aircraft requests frequency change after being issued ‘taxi to RWYXX, contact tower when ready’ (commonly encountered when the aircraft is holding short of the runway), a ‘frequency change already sent’ message **should** be used. Sometimes the pilots do not realise that the previous command gave them permission to change frequency.

 